used before a noun to refer to a single thing or person but not a particular thing or person or not one that you have referred to before
She's got a boyfriend.
Someone left an umbrella here yesterday.
Is he a friend of yours?
You can make a quick snack, for example a sandwich.
used to mean any or every thing or person of the type you are referring to
Can you ride a bike?
A child needs love.
A cheetah can run faster than a lion.
I don't need it because I'm too old to have a doll.
one
a hundred dollars
a dozen eggs
Dear Ally, All my friends from school were here, more than a hundred people.
used to state what type of thing or person something or someone is
Sally's an engineer.
It's a rabbit.
She's a teacher.
used before some phrases saying how much of something there is
a few days
a bit of wool
Please come next Monday with old clothes and a bit of green paint.
used before some action nouns when referring to one example of the action
Take a look at this, Jez.
I'm just going to have a wash.
I took a shower and ate my breakfast.
used before the first but not the second of two nouns that are often used together
a cup and saucer
a knife and fork
I like a clean fork and knife.
used when referring to a unit of something, especially something you eat or drink
I'd love a coffee.
All I had for lunch was a yogurt.
We both had a coke and a hot dog.
used between a fraction and a unit of measurement
half a mile
a quarter of a kilo
three-quarters of an hour
The lesson is half an hour but you have to be there 10 minutes before.
used when referring to a certain period of time
Take one tablet three times a day.
She earns $100 000 a year.
I can write to him or her twice a week.
to leave someone or something somewhere, sometimes not returning to get them
They were forced to abandon the car.
As a baby, he'd been abandoned by his mother.
We were sinking fast, and the captain gave the order to abandon ship.
I lived with my mother and brother but my father was never there. I knew that he had abandoned us for another woman.
to stop doing something before it is finished, or to stop following a plan, idea, etc.
The match was abandoned because of rain.
How would you feel if you established a long-time plan for your career and then you had to abandon it?
left empty or not working
an abandoned factory/village
Arriving at an altitude of 2000m, people can visit the abandoned salt-mines.
having been left somewhere, intentionally
An abandoned baby was found in a box on the hospital steps.
Please, just have a look at your wife Margaret and her eyes will tell you that she is this abandoned princess of your childhood fairy-tale.
the physical or mental skill or qualities that you need to do something
She had the ability to explain things clearly.
athletic/academic ability
The protagonist had been bitten by a strange spider and some days later, he noticed he had some strange powers, such as the ability to create spiders' webs.
to have the ability to do something or the possibility of doing something
He'll be able to help you.
Will she be able to do the work?
I'm sorry that I wasn't able to phone you yesterday.
It's so wonderful being able to see the sea from my window.
I will be able to go to your house next Friday.
clever or good at doing something
She's a very able student.
They contend that this will lead to better grades, better results in key stage tests, and a more able work force.
different from what is normal or usual, in a way which is strange or dangerous
abnormal behaviour/weather
They found abnormal levels of lead in the water.
The cost of it for the Chinese population is an abnormal level of pollution, that causes many deaths every year.
on or onto a plane, ship, bus, or train
Welcome aboard flight BA109 to Paris.
Competition entry "Welcome aboard on the flight to ancient Rome..." Please fasten your seatbelts...
to officially end something, especially a law or system
I think bullfighting should be abolished.
National Service was abolished in Britain in 1962.
Therefore, I suggest you should not change or abolish any event for any reason.
a medical operation to end a pregnancy when the baby is still too small to live
She had an abortion.
Some of these problems are serious and should be eliminated, such as abortion and domestic violence.
relating to a particular subject or person
What's she talking about?
I've got a book about Jung.
I like my IT course because I want to learn about computers.
used when suggesting or offering something to someone
How about a trip to the zoo this afternoon?
"Coffee, Sarah?" "No, thanks." "What about you, Kate?"
How about cycling there?
What about going on Saturday?
used to ask for someone's opinion on a particular subject
What about Ava - is she nice?
So the town was nice - how about the food?
I also enjoy shopping for shoes, what about you?
a little more or less than the stated number or amount
It happened about two months ago.
"What time are you leaving work today?" "About five."
It's not far from my home, about 20 minutes' walk, or 5 minutes by bus.
to or in different parts of a place, often without purpose or order
They heard someone moving/walking about outside.
to be going to do something very soon
I was about to leave when Mark arrived.
When I was just about to cross the road, I realised that I was going to faint at any moment.
in or to a higher position than something else
There's a mirror above the washbasin.
Her name comes above mine on the list.
I think I have put it above the bookshelf.
more than an amount or level
It says on the box it's for children aged three and above.
Rates of pay are above average.
The weather is too hot in Beijing. Every day it is above 30 degrees.
most importantly
Above all, I'd like to thank my family.
He is known above all for his film roles.
She is a very nice person and above all, she is really cheerful.
too good or important for something
No one is above suspicion in this matter.
higher on the page
the above diagram
Match these words with the pictures above.
Please send the articles to the address given/shown above.
I can be contacted at the above address and I would be free to attend an interview at any time from Monday to Saturday.
in or to a foreign country
He's currently abroad on business.
We always go abroad in the summer.
I have never been abroad.
sudden and not expected
Our conversation came to an abrupt end.
Their income came from the revenues obtained by selling milk, fruit, jelly and other perishable goods, but they had to pay John, or their happy lifestyle would come to an abrupt end.
dealing with people in a quick way that is unfriendly or rude
She has a rather abrupt manner.
I was poorly received and the general tone of the person assisting me was rude and abrupt.
suddenly and quickly
They abruptly left the party.
His speech ended abruptly and he left the stage.
When she became an adolescent, her perspective changed abruptly.
when someone is not where they are usually expected to be
A new manager was appointed during/in her absence.
She has had repeated absences from work this year.
Thank you very much for letting me stay in your flat during your absence on holiday.
when something does not exist
He drew attention to the absence of concrete evidence against the defendant.
The biggest difference the absence of TV made in my life was that I actually started living.
not in the place where you are expected to be, especially at school or work
John has been absent from school/work for three days now.
I would like to apologise, because I'm missing tomorrow's class. I'm going to be absent because my grandmother is ill and I have to take care of her.
complete and definite
absolute control
He's an absolute idiot!
That's absolute rubbish!
I have no experience of surfing - I am an absolute beginner with high motivation.
completely
The food was absolutely delicious.
It's absolutely ridiculous.
I have absolutely no idea what she's talking about.
We've achieved absolutely nothing today.
I absolutely hate it.
I've heard the film is absolutely fantastic.
used to strongly agree with someone
"Do you think it helped his career?" "Absolutely."
"It was an excellent film, though." "Absolutely!"
So have the Swedish grandparents got funkier? Absolutely!
used to strongly disagree with someone or to agree with something negative
"Are you suggesting that we should just ignore the problem?" "No, absolutely not."
Does it mean the parents will allow them to eat anything they please? Absolutely not. You have to give the children some options, instead of imposing things on them.
to take something in, especially gradually
Plants absorb carbon dioxide.
The drug is quickly absorbed into the bloodstream.
Everything is getting intermingled and absorbed into the system, making life terribly efficient, quick and easy.
to give all your attention to something that you are doing
Simon was so absorbed in his computer game that he didn't notice me come in.
We hadn't noticed them at first because we were absorbed in listening to the birds singing.
to understand and remember facts that you read or hear
It's hard to absorb so much information.
You will have only three school subjects and that'll make it easier to absorb the new knowledge.
relating to ideas and not real things
abstract ideas
Truth and beauty are abstract concepts.
Reading improves your ability to imagine and your abstract thinking skills.
Abstract art involves shapes and colours and not images of real things or people.
abstract paintings/sculpture
What kind of material will you use for this painting? Will it be a realistic picture or an abstract one?
very silly
What an absurd explanation!
Don't be so absurd! Of course I want you to come.
It's an absurd situation - neither of them will talk to the other.
In your article, some performers are called 'second-rate', which, in my view, is absurd when talking about such famous groups as 'Snakes' and 'KGB'.
bad or cruel treatment of people or animals
sexual/psychological/mental abuse
The rescued dogs had been victims of physical abuse.
The one side opposes this treatment as an abuse of living creatures while the other side denies any suffering and points at the values of zoos for people.
the use of a substance in an unsuitable and harmful way or for the wrong purpose
Drug and alcohol abuse contributed to his early death.
This program tries to address problems that lead to substance abuse.
Get information about the effects of drug abuse and make your generation a better one.
an action or activity that is morally wrong or not allowed
The politician's behaviour was an abuse of power.
It is a vast resource of information, but the abuse of it may have detrimental consequences.
rude and offensive words said to another person
Rival fans shouted abuse at each other.
I went all the way back cycling on the wrong side of the road, and anyone who said something about it could expect a stream of abuse.
saying rude and offensive words to someone
an abusive phone call
This is partly true, because even a slightly abusive expression might result in discord or rupture between seemingly close friends.
relating to schools, colleges and universities, or to subjects which involve thinking and studying and not technical or practical skills
academic subjects/qualifications/books
academic standards
As a member of our academic community, I'm very glad to hear that our college will have a surplus in its annual budget.
clever and good at studying
He's not very academic.
to start to happen more quickly, or to make something start to happen more quickly
Inflation is likely to accelerate this year.
Fashion has always been changing but I think this process accelerated after the Second World War.
to move or cause yourself or a vehicle to move faster
The car in front accelerated and left us behind.
When I ride my bike and start accelerating, I feel that I move with the speed of the wind.
the way in which people in a particular area, country or social group pronounce words
an American accent
He speaks with a broad/heavy/strong Yorkshire accent.
Our teacher is a middle-aged lady with a kind smile and a British accent.
a mark written or printed over a letter to show you how to pronounce it
There's an acute accent on the 'e' of 'café'.
to agree to take something that is offered to you
to accept an apology/invitation/offer
I've been invited to their wedding, but I haven't decided whether to accept.
She won't accept advice from anyone.
I hope that you accept my apology.
to admit that something is true, often something unpleasant
He refuses to accept that he's made a mistake.
I can't accept that there's nothing we can do.
David told her that the reason for his failure was her, because she used to press him a lot and she couldn't accept that he wanted to be an actor.
to allow someone to join an organization or become part of a group
She's been accepted by two universities.
He was accepted as a full member of the society.
His fellow workers refused to accept him.
When I returned home I checked my mail and I had a new message from my uncle, saying that the university have accepted me.
to admit that you caused something bad that happened
I accept full responsibility for the failure of the plan.
good enough
work of an acceptable standard
Clearly we need to come to an arrangement that is acceptable to both parties.
This kind of attitude is simply not acceptable.
So what is an acceptable level of radiation?
I am sure that finally I will succeed in using English in an acceptable way!
allowed or approved of
Smoking is less and less socially acceptable.
They should teach them what is right and wrong, and what is morally and socially acceptable.
when you accept something
His acceptance of the award was controversial.
There is a growing public acceptance of alternative medicine.
The main reason for the "fast-food" groceries winning acceptance in Swedish culture is lack of time.
agreed or approved by most people
an accepted spelling
Competition can also be an accepted form of expression of one's aggression.
the right or opportunity to use or look at something
Internet access
The system has been designed to give the user quick and easy access to the required information.
I would suggest free Internet access as an extra facility in our library.
the way in which you can enter a place or get to a place
disabled access
The only access to the village is by boat.
I think it would be better if you stayed in a small village which has easy access to the city centre.
to find or see information, especially using a computer
You can access the files over the Internet.
We have more time to stay together at home, because we can access the internet at home.
able to be reached or easily got
The resort is easily accessible by road, rail and air.
It is very accessible because it is situated in the centre.
easy to understand
They are attempting to make opera accessible to a wider audience.
Jacques Prevert, the French poet, changed our way of seeing the world by making poetry accessible to everyone.
something extra which is not necessary but is attractive or useful
bathroom accessories
computer accessories
They find pleasure in looking at different clothes, shoes, accessories, gadgets and home furnishings.
something bad which happens that is not expected or intended, and which causes injury or damage
Josh had an accident and spilled water all over his work.
She was injured in a car/road accident.
I had an accident two weeks ago and now I can't do sport.
without being intended
I deleted the file by accident.
I was dancing and someone kicked me by accident and my glasses fell off.
happening by chance
accidental damage
The archeological site was located after the accidental discovery of bones in a field.
by chance or by mistake
She accidentally knocked over a glass of water.
I accidentally broke one of your vases - the most beautiful one.
praised by a lot of people
the acclaimed singer and songwriter
In order to avoid such an embarrassing inconsistency in the next meeting, I suggest inviting Colin Briggs, the acclaimed footballer, to talk to his fans.
a place where you live or stay
rented accommodation
The price includes flights, all meals and accommodation.
There's a shortage of cheap accommodation.
You can find cheap accommodation in a student room because they are usually free in July and August.
to go somewhere with someone
We accompanied her back to her hotel.
Children under 10 must be accompanied by an adult.
I asked my cousin to accompany me because she knew the way to the temple.
to happen or exist at the same time as something else
The course books are accompanied by four CDs.
The salmon was accompanied by a fresh green salad.
The weather was very hot and a shining sun accompanied us during our trip.
to play music to support someone else who is playing or singing
He accompanied me on the piano.
Last year, for instance, the concert became a recital: two singers performed Lieder by Schubert accompanied by the piano and by the sweet sound of Arimany's golden flute.
to succeed in doing something good
I feel as if I've accomplished nothing all day.
To accomplish this, schools should try to respect the individuality of each child, give them chances to think more freely.
If you do something of your own accord, you choose to do it and no one else forces you.
She left of her own accord.
She would go alone, but it was something that was chosen of her own accord.
in the way described by a rule, law, or wish
Both companies have insisted that they were acting in accordance with the law.
Although they do not earn much money in this profession, they try to do their best and judge in accordance with the law which they also have to interpret.
as said by someone or shown by something
According to Sarah, they're not getting on very well at the moment.
According to our records, you owe us £45.
According to the guide, it was a famous culture in ancient times.
in a way that agrees with
Students are all put in different groups according to their ability.
The job included organizing suitable activities according to their age, capability and wishes.
an arrangement with a bank to keep your money there and to allow you to take it out when you need to
I've opened an account with another bank.
I paid the money into my account this morning.
The man, whose name I can't remember, wrote a serious looking message in which he talked about a money transfer to a Swiss bank account.
a written or spoken description of something that has happened
She gave a thrilling account of her life in the jungle.
The documents provide a detailed account of the town's early history.
I would be very interested in participating and writing the accounts of our journeys.
to consider something when judging a situation
A good architect takes account of the building's surroundings.
I hope you will take account of our request.
to consider something when judging a situation
I think you have to take into account the fact that he's a good deal younger than the rest of us.
Taking into account all these arguments, I also think, like many people, that keeping animals in zoos is cruel and unnecessary.
because of something
He doesn't eat any dairy products on account of the diet he is following.
On account of its location, it is always busy.
as said by a lot of people
The party was, by all accounts, a great success.
I have known Michael Van Cleef for over two decades now, and he is, by all accounts, an exemplary worker.
not for any reason or in any situation
On no account must these records be changed.
Mary did not want Martin to leave on any account, let alone move to a foreign country.
to be the reason for something, or to explain the reason for something
Can you account for your absence last Friday?
He'd had an argument with Caroline, which accounts for his bad mood this morning.
She was asked to account for the missing money.
I was at a loss for words when I tried to account for her behaviour, but I never ceased to consider her a very valuable friend.
responsible for what you do and having to be able to explain your actions
Hospitals must be held accountable for their mistakes.
Politicians should be accountable to the public that elects them.
Finally, there should be a person who should be held accountable and is accessible to our complaints.
someone whose job is to keep or examine the financial records of a person or organization
a firm of accountants
I am working as an accountant at Deloitte & Touche.
to increase in amount over a period of time, or to make something increase over a period of time
The chemicals accumulate in your body.
Rain water then accumulates in the reservoir.
an amount of something that has been collected
Despite this accumulation of evidence, the government did nothing.
What is success? For some it is the accumulation of possessions, for others it's fame, health, love.
how correct or exact something is
We can predict changes with a surprising degree of accuracy.
I was very disappointed to observe your lack of accuracy in the description of this wonderful event.
correct, exact and without any mistakes
accurate information/measurements
She was able to give the police a fairly accurate description of the man.
Her novel is an accurate reflection of life in post-war Spain.
We hope to become more accurate in predicting earthquakes.
Some information in the Guidebook was not very accurate.
in an accurate way
The plans should be drawn as accurately as possible, showing all the measurements.
It's necessary to consider a lot of aspects to answer this question accurately, but in general I would prefer to go to work by bicycle.
when you say that someone has done something bad
He made a number of accusations against his former colleagues.
I have enclosed the Distribution Chart in order to prevent you from making further accusations.
to say that someone has done something bad
He's been accused of robbery/murder.
Are you accusing me of lying?
They were accused of vandalism.
If you are accustomed to something, you have experienced it often enough for it to seem normal to you.
I've worked nights for years now so I've grown accustomed to it.
She isn't accustomed to dealing with so much media attention.
I am quite accustomed to being with many kinds of people of different ages.
a feeling of pain over an area of your body which continues for a long time
As you get older, you have all sorts of aches and pains.
I've got an ache in my lower back.
Since then, I have had an ache in my left leg.
to have a continuous pain that is unpleasant but not strong
My head/tooth/back aches.
I ache/I'm aching all over.
After an hour of horseback riding your muscles can really ache.
to succeed in doing something good, usually by working hard
She finally achieved her ambition to visit South America.
The government's training policy, he claimed, was achieving its objectives.
My father is a person who has achieved a lot of great things in his life.
something very good and difficult that you have succeeded in doing
An Olympic silver medal is a remarkable achievement for such a young athlete.
It gives you a sense of achievement if you actually make it to the end of a very long book.
I think this is an achievement because he is now a lawyer.
a liquid substance which can react chemically with and sometimes dissolve other materials
hydrochloric/fatty acid
Vinegar is an acid.
We saw a little black dragon with scales like iron charging at us and spitting acid.
to accept that something is true or exists
He acknowledged that there was a problem.
They fully acknowledge the need to keep fit as a part of being a healthy and well-educated person.
to tell someone, usually in writing, that you have received something they sent you
He sent a letter acknowledging receipt of her application.
Re: Follow-up job as interpreter, I acknowledge receipt of your recent correspondence.
someone who you know but do not know well
He's just a business acquaintance.
Should you not give us a printed apology, I would seriously consider recommending all my friends and acquaintances not to trust your future articles.
to get something
He acquired the firm in 1978.
I seem to have acquired two copies of this book.
I would like to join the club because I will be able to acquire more stamps for my collection.
to learn something
to acquire knowledge/skills
I have already acquired experience in the Tourism Field, working as a guard in a summer camp in Florida in 1997.
a unit for measuring area, equal to 4047 square metres
He's got 400 acres of land in Wales.
We have to admit that, not only because of the financial weakness but also because of the badly organized plans, we failed to achieve the planting of 10,000 trees per acre.
from one side of something to the other
She walked across the field/road.
They're building a new bridge across the river.
When I reached the river, I simply swam across.
My new phone is great. It is black with white lines going across it.
happening or having an effect on people at every level and in every area
The improvement has been across the board, with all divisions reporting increased profits.
Children in separate schools get on with things regardless of it being work for boys or girls, which can be quite positive especially in today's lifestyles where chores are done across the board.
on the opposite side of
The library is just across the road.
I think you will enjoy it, so let's meet at 6:00 pm at London Bridge Station next to Pret a Manger, because the cinema is just across the road.
to perform in a film, play, etc.
Have you ever acted in a play before?
Andrew Pike was chosen to act the part of the lawyer in the film.
We are taught how to act in both comic and serious parts.
to behave in a particular way
He acted as if he'd never met me before.
Don't be so silly - you're acting like a child!
I always care about how much money I have and I always act sensibly.
to do something, especially in order to solve a problem
She acted without thinking.
We have to act now to stop the spread of this disease.
We can make the village much more attractive than it has ever been. If we act together as a group, things will be easier.
one of the parts a play is divided into
Her character doesn't appear until Act 2.
Everything was going all right, until we reached the "balcony act".
something that someone does
an act of aggression/kindness/terrorism
a kind/thoughtless/selfish act
The simple act of telling someone about a problem can help.
I think that reading is an act of intelligence because animals can't read, while watching T.V. is only an act of having fun!!!
behaviour which hides your real feelings or intentions
Was she really upset or was that just an act?
Sometimes what is put on display for the tourists is all an act and gives you a different impression and opinion of the country and people, so it would be advisable to meet some local people like the butcher or baker and have a talk with them.
to organize your activities so that you can make progress
She's so disorganized - I wish she'd get her act together.
He was determined to get his act together and try to find a solution to his problem.
things which are happening, especially exciting or important things
I like films with a lot of action.
In her last novel, the action moves between Greece and southern Spain.
I really like science fiction films and this film has lots of action and special effects.
something that you do
We must take action before the problem gets worse.
She has to accept the consequences of her actions.
What do you think is the best course of action?
I decided to take action on my own.
a legal process in a court
They are planning to take legal action against the company.
If we do not get a satisfactory answer to this letter, apologising and offering the compensation that the students deserve, we will have no other option but to take legal action.
damaged or hurt and not able to operate or play sports
I'm afraid my car's out of action.
They've got three players out of action.
The air-conditioning in my room was out of action and the hotel manager didn't care.
something that you can do in a particular situation
I think the best course of action would be to write to him.
However, I believe that the best course of action in this case is to give our student a refund.
fighting in a war
He was killed in action.
It was a shock when she got to know that her husband had been killed in action.
a movement or natural process
The rocks are smoothed by the action of water.
The area of Sayago - in the Spanish province of Zamora - and Tras-os-Montes, in Portugal, are joined by a natural border: the river Duero and the rocky canyon that has been eroded for millions of years by the action of the water.
doing a lot of things, or moving around a lot
physically/mentally active
You've got to try to keep active as you grow older.
Nico is a very active guy and I enjoyed going out with him very much.
An active verb or sentence is one in which the subject is the person or thing doing the action.
'Catrin told me' is an active sentence, and 'I was told by Catrin' is passive.
very involved in an organization or planned activity
He played an active role in the campaign.
Both of his parents were politically active.
Enemy forces remain active in the mountainous areas around the city.
I have always been very active in different organizations, sports as well as charity.
An active volcano could throw out rocks, fire, etc. at any time.
Mount Etna in Sicily is one of the world's most active volcanoes.
The beautiful, crystal-blue sea and the small white houses, the bright orange of the sky during the evening and the unidentified colour of the volcanic rocks around the great, active volcano are just a few of the colours that paint the natural beauty of Thera.
in a way that involves positive action
He's very actively involved in the local Labour Party.
I've been actively looking for a job for six months.
There's statistical evidence that maths can train a brain to study actively.
something that is done for enjoyment, especially an organized event
The centre offers a range of activities, such as cycling, swimming and tennis.
We did many activities: playing games, singing and watching a magic show.
the work of a group or organization to achieve an aim
He was found guilty of terrorist activity.
criminal activities
But Rollo was also a good man, so when a policeman, called Calloway, informed him about Harry's illegal activity, he turned against him.
when a lot of things are happening or people are moving around
Ministers are concerned by the low level of economic activity.
There was a lot of activity the other side of the room.
Technical progress and industrial activity are causing a lot of problems.
someone whose job is to perform in plays, films, etc.
"Who's your favourite actor?" "Robert de Niro."
We watched a DVD called "Minority Report" with the actor Tom Cruise.
real, not guessed or imagined
We had estimated about 300 visitors, but the actual number was much higher.
The exams are in July, but the actual results don't appear until September.
In my opinion, Burgers' Bush, Safari & Zoo in Arnhem has found the perfect solution. The actual zoo is rather small but each animal has a lot of space for running or wandering around.
used to emphasize what is really true, or to give more information
I thought she was Portuguese, but in actual fact she's Brazilian.
Nowadays almost all people own a car and in actual fact more and more people have been facing death as a consequence of careless driving.
used when you are emphasizing what is really true or what really happened
I don't actually like seafood.
So what actually happened?
Last night I was at your house and I think I have left my purse there. It's actually quite important because my Identity Card is inside.
used when you are emphasizing something surprising
A friend of mine from university was actually at the same concert - I hadn't seen her for years!
Don't tell me he actually paid for you? You are honoured!
It was so cool, man! They had actually built a good skate park with a pool, a halfpipe, a funbox, several rails and of course many ramps.
used when you are correcting someone, disagreeing with someone, or saying no to a request
Actually, Gavin, it was Tuesday of last week, not Wednesday.
"You didn't tell me about needing the car." "Actually, I did."
"Do you mind if I smoke?" "Actually, I'd rather you didn't."
Actually, TORRENTS was the second group at the festival. I think you probably missed the first performance in which KING CUP sang.
an advertisement
I saw an ad for a part-time job that you might like.
The ad mentions this is a temporary job, up to 6 months and part-time or full-time.
to change your behaviour so that it is suitable for a new situation
It takes time to adapt to a new working environment.
I and my parents easily adapted to London, and to English people.
to change something so that it is suitable for a different use or situation
Many software companies have adapted popular programs to the new operating system.
Davies is busy adapting Brinkworth's latest novel for television.
In my opinion, as the town is not so big it will be enough to adapt the two areas outside the town walls and to use them for car parking.
the process or act of changing to suit a new situation
Evolution occurs as a result of adaptation to new environments.
This varies from one person to another, it depends on everyone's priorities and degree of adaptation to their new communities.
to put something with something else
Beat the butter and sugar together and slowly add the eggs.
She's added a Picasso to her collection.
When we have a special day we also cook manto, which is made from meat, vegetables and bread. You must pour some mint juice on top and to be more delicious, you must add chili.
to put two or more numbers or amounts together to get a total
If you add three and four you get seven.
The restaurant will add 10% to your bill for service.
My maths teacher is going to give me 5 marks which will be added to my exam result.
to say another thing
She was sad, she said, but added that she felt she had made the right decision.
The guide told us they called it Swan Lake because there are lots of swans and added that the swans come from all over the country.
to make someone's bad situation worse by doing something else to upset them
To add insult to injury, we had to pay for the damage!
To add insult to injury, such an approach often turns out to be counterproductive.
a person who cannot stop doing or using something, especially something harmful
a drug/heroin addict
a gambling addict
I'm a chocolate/shopping addict.
I like TV, I watch it but luckily I haven't become a TV addict yet.
not able to stop taking a drug
He later became addicted to heroin.
One day my uncle called and told me a story of a boy who was addicted to drugs.
liking something very much
He's addicted to chocolate/football.
However, I believe that some people are addicted to computer games and that is not good.
when you cannot stop doing or taking something because you are addicted to it
drug addiction
an addiction to alcohol
His addiction to computer games means he is spending far too much time indoors.
Sending text messages is an addiction which every teenager is obsessed with.
If something is addictive, it makes you want more of it so that you become addicted.
Tobacco is highly addictive.
The problem with computer games is that they're addictive.
Serial dramas are addictive - it is not unknown for whole countries to come to a standstill because an important revelation will be made on television.
as well (as)
In addition to his flat in London, he has a villa in Italy and a castle in Scotland.
In addition, I saw a wonderful programme about Aborigines.
a new or extra thing which is added to something
Defender Matt Smith is the latest addition to the team.
There is only one more thing missing: it would be great if there was popcorn provided. I am sure that would be a good addition for everyone.
the process of adding numbers or amounts together in order to get a total
Twice a week the children are tested in basic mathematical skills such as addition and subtraction.
extra
additional costs/problems
There will be an extra charge for any additional passengers.
I do have some additional questions for you.
in addition
Additionally, we request a deposit of $200 in advance.
Additionally, I am very interested in helping an organization that's trying to protect the environment.
the details of where a building is, including the building number, road name, town, etc.
her business/home address
a change of address
Please tell me your address.
a series of letters, numbers or punctuation marks referring to a website or email destination
Do you have their Web address?
P.S This is my new e-mail address: xxxxxxxxx
to deal with a problem
We have to address the issue/problem before it gets worse.
On balance, I would say that increasing the price of petrol to solve traffic and pollution problems is certainly a viable, although maybe not the best, way to address the issue.
to speak to someone, or to give a speech to an audience
Today she will be addressing a major conference in London.
He inhaled deeply before addressing the group again.
to write a name and address on an envelope or parcel
A parcel arrived addressed to Emma.
The envelope was addressed to Kathleen.
enough
I didn't have adequate time to prepare.
Will future oil supplies be adequate to meet world needs?
I hope the information I gave is adequate.
good enough, but not very good
The sound quality isn't brilliant but it's adequate for everyday use.
The council's provision for the elderly is barely adequate.
In my opinion, animals should only be kept in a zoo that provides adequate living conditions and sufficient room.
in an adequate way
While some patients can be adequately cared for at home, others are best served by care in a hospital.
If two things are adjacent, they are next to each other.
The fire started in an adjacent building.
They live in a house adjacent to the railway.
Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing to you with regard to the recent proposal of the City Council to build a supermarket on land that is currently a local park, namely Cranleigh Gardens, adjacent to the Cranleigh housing estate, where I live.
a word that describes a noun or pronoun
'Big', 'boring', 'purple', 'quick' and 'obvious' are all adjectives.
to change something slightly so that it works better, fits better, or is more suitable
If the chair is too high you can adjust it to suit you.
As a teacher you have to adjust your methods to suit the needs of different children.
I had to clean the lenses, prepare the tapes, and adjust the sound.
to change the way you behave or think in order to suit a new situation
They found it hard to adjust to life in a new country.
People will be able to adjust and change with the times.
a small change that you make to something so that it works better, fits better, or is more suitable
We've made a few adjustments to the schedule.
I have a few minor adjustments to make.
I have some questions and a minor adjustment to make.
the work of organizing and arranging the operation of something, such as a company
The job involves a lot of administration.
For schools, it is much easier in terms of administration.
relating to the organization and management of something
The work is largely administrative.
The engineers and administrative staff must be able to work in both English and French whereas German would be an asset.
someone who helps to manage an organization
She is an administrator at the hospital.
As an ex-army officer and an administrator in an international firm, I am learning to work as a member of a team.
when you admire someone or something
My admiration for that woman grows daily.
She gazed in admiration at his broad, muscular shoulders.
All over the world there are so many people who deserve admiration.
to find someone or something attractive and pleasant to look at
I was just admiring your jacket, Delia.
We stood for a few moments, admiring the view.
It was a sunny day, luckily, so I was able to admire the lake and the Marmolada, the highest mountain in the Dolomites.
to respect or approve of someone or something
I admired him for his determination.
I really admire people who can work in such difficult conditions.
The person I admire most, however, is my father.
the money that you pay to enter a place or an event
Art exhibition - free admission.
They are charging more for admission to the festival this year.
We believe that this is a great opportunity because it is one of the best shows of the year, and the best part is that the admission is free for students.
when someone is given permission to enter somewhere or to become a member of a club, university, etc.
She's applied for admission to law school.
I was wondering whether you could send me some information about the rules of admission to the club.
to agree that something is true, especially unwillingly
He admitted his guilt/mistake.
She admitted (that) she had made a mistake.
I wasn't entirely honest with him, I admit, but I didn't actually tell him any lies.
I have to admit I love lions, but while I was watching the programme, I was afraid.
used when you are agreeing that something is true although you do not want to
Admittedly, I could have tried harder but I still don't think all this criticism is fair.
Admittedly, using your car is more convenient and easier than using public transport but in my opinion, the advantages of using public transport outweigh the disadvantages it can cause.
a young person who is between being a child and an adult
Many adolescents are secretive.
Children become adolescents with more freedom and yet more responsibilities.
to legally become the parents of someone else's child
They've adopted a baby girl.
She had the child adopted.
She isn't my biological mother, she adopted me when I was a baby.
to accept or start to use something new
We've adopted a new approach to the problem.
The new tax would force companies to adopt energy-saving measures.
He's adopted a remarkably light-hearted attitude towards the situation.
I believe that we must continue to adopt his ideas.
legally taken by another family to be looked after as their own child
They've got two adopted children and one of their own.
the process of legally becoming the parents of someone else's child
She couldn't have children, so they were considering adoption.
a person or animal that has grown to full size and strength
Adults pay an admission charge but children get in free.
Dear Jo, The class day is Wednesday for children (8-16s) and Tuesday for adults.
for or relating to adults
adult education
She spent most of her adult life in prison.
After the wedding, we go to a restaurant to celebrate. There are two types of menu, the adult one, and the one for the children.
having finished growing
an adult male rat
Tony Soprano is the bad kid in every adult male.
before a particular time, or before doing a particular thing
If you're going to come, please let me know in advance.
Don't forget to book in advance because as you can imagine, everyone goes away from the city during the summer holiday!
new discoveries and inventions
technological/scientific advances
Our lives have been improved by the many recent advances in computer technology.
the advance of modern medicine
I guess science is about solving our daily problems with technological advances.
at a higher, more difficult level
an advanced English course
I just couldn't stay with my old classmates because they were too slow and I needed a more advanced group.
modern and well developed
advanced technology
This is the most advanced type of engine available.
We are living in the 21st century where everybody is surrounded by advanced technological methods.
something good about a situation that helps you
The advantage of booking tickets in advance is that you get better seats.
For a goalkeeper, it's a great advantage to have big hands.
The main advantage is that there are so many places to visit like museums, old streets in the city centre, churches and cathedrals.
to use something good in a situation to help you
I thought I'd take advantage of the sports facilities while I'm here.
If you take advantage of this opportunity, in the future you'll thank me.
to treat someone or something badly in order to get what you want
I think she takes advantage of his good nature.
There will always be the threat of those men who take advantage of animals' inferior status.
something that will help you to succeed
These new routes will give the airline the advantage over its competitors.
an exciting and sometimes dangerous experience
It's a film about the adventures of two friends travelling through Africa.
We got lost on the Metro - it was quite an adventure.
My favourite present was a trip to Egypt. I like it because I will have adventures and be able to explore other countries.
willing to try new and often difficult or dangerous things
I'm trying to be more adventurous with my cooking.
She led an adventurous life.
I think it's better for us to sleep in tents because it'll be more adventurous than staying in rooms.
a word which describes or gives more information about a verb, adjective, another adverb or a phrase
In the phrase 'she smiled cheerfully', the word 'cheerfully' is an adverb.
things that cause problems or danger
adverse weather conditions
Pollution levels like these will certainly have an adverse effect on health.
The price rise had an adverse impact on sales.
However, we should bear in mind that tourism could have an adverse effect on the local environment.
an advertisement
an advert for the local radio station
I read an advert in the newspaper about that new club called "Click".
to tell people about a product or service in newspapers, on television, on the Internet, etc.
Companies are not allowed to advertise cigarettes on television any more.
On this bus we can advertise the village's best products.
to put information in a newspaper, on the Internet, etc. asking for someone or something that you need
The university is advertising for catering staff.
Dear Sir/Madam, I wish to apply for the post of helper which was advertised on the college noticeboard last Monday.
a picture, short film, song, etc. which tries to persuade people to buy a product or service
a television/newspaper advertisement
an advertisement for a new car
She scanned the job advertisements in the paper.
Hi Jo, I've seen an advertisement for a job that might interest you at the music shop near the park.
the business of trying to persuade people to buy products or services
Fiona works in advertising.
the advertising industry
Some weeks ago, she was hired by a famous advertising company, widely known for its ironic ads.
suggestions about what you think someone should do or how they should do something
Steven gave me some good advice.
I think I'll take your advice and get the green dress.
Can I give you a piece of advice?
I need some advice on which computer to buy.
My advice is to go by train.
I need advice from you because I am not sure what colour I want.
to make a suggestion about what you think someone should do or how they should do something
I think I'd advise him to leave the company.
I'd strongly advise against making a sudden decision.
They're advising that children be kept out of the sun altogether.
I'd advise waiting until tomorrow.
She advised us when to come.
I advise you to go there and have a good time.
someone whose job is to give advice about a subject
a financial adviser
Some of our financial advisers could provide your students with the latest methods used in Accounting and in developing new business projects.
to express support for a particular idea or way of doing things
I certainly wouldn't advocate the use of violence.
Just like Mahatma Gandhi, who advocated non-violent methods of struggle, Picasso struggled against fascism by peaceful means, namely with his art.
someone who supports a particular idea or way of doing things
He has always been an advocate of space exploration.
Advocates of international tourism subscribe to the view that mass tourism offers benefits to the whole community.
a vehicle that flies and has at least one engine and wings
She has her own private aeroplane.
I'm going to travel by aeroplane.
a sexual relationship, especially a secret one
She's having an affair with a married man.
The book doesn't make any mention of his love affairs.
I met a very handsome man and my husband had a little love affair with a very pretty girl there, but we forgave each other.
a situation or set of related events, especially bad ones
The government's handling of the affair has been widely criticized.
He refused to discuss his financial affairs.
To make matters worse, people gossiped about me and tried to find out more and more about my private affairs, which made me feel embarrassed.
to have an influence on someone or something, or to cause them to change
The divorce affected every aspect of her life.
Both buildings were badly affected by the fire.
The telephone is a very important invention, which has affected our lives.
to cause a strong emotion, especially sadness
I was deeply affected by the film.
When the fourth song, 'Rebellion' started, I was deeply affected by the rhythm.
a feeling of liking or loving a person or place
He had a deep affection for his aunt.
She felt no affection for the child.
In addition she loves me very much and she offers a lot of affection to me when I face a difficult situation with my job.
showing that you like or love someone
an affectionate child
He's very affectionate.
She is attentive and affectionate, but most of all she is a sweet mother.
having a lot of money
affluent families/nations/neighbourhoods
Children who come from poor families are more mature and responsible than those children coming from affluent families.
to be able to buy or do something because you have enough money or time
I don't know how he can afford a new car on his salary.
Few people are able to afford cars like that.
I'd love to go away for a few days but I can't afford the time.
I can't afford to buy a house.
Unfortunately, I can't afford it now, but Christmas is coming, so I can ask my parents for a stereo for Christmas, but I'm not sure if they will agree or not.
If you cannot afford to do something, it is impossible for you to do it without causing problems.
We can't afford to take that risk.
We cannot afford to lose our national and global identity.
cheap enough for most people to be able to buy
We need more affordable housing in this area.
They are very pleased with the affordable fares, however they are more inclined to comfort.
used to politely introduce bad news or to politely disagree with someone
I'm afraid (that) we can't come this evening after all.
This is your room - it's rather small, I'm afraid.
I'm afraid I disagree with you there.
I don't agree at all, I'm afraid.
Hi! I'm afraid that last night I left my phone in your home.
frightened
He was/felt suddenly afraid.
She's afraid of water.
I'm afraid of heights.
worried that something bad might happen
Many people are afraid (that) they might lose their jobs.
She's afraid of upsetting Clare.
If I go shopping for clothes as a gift for children, I'm usually afraid of buying the wrong size.
when a time or event has happened
Shall we go for a walk after breakfast?
We had a chat after the meeting.
Let's get the shopping. After that, we can stop for a coffee.
After a while, I began to like him.
His birthday is exactly a week after mine.
It was so boring, I left after ten minutes.
You can go shopping, eat a tasty meal and after that you can go to the disco and dance all night.
when you have gone past a particular place
Turn left after the hotel.
You want the turning on the right just after the police station.
You can go to a wonderful place near here, The Great Falls. This is a very good place because you can do extreme sports. It is just after the town, on Main Road.
following in order
H comes after G in the alphabet.
following someone or something
We ran after him but he escaped.
I ran after the bus and shouted to her 'hurry up!'
used to add information that shows that what you have just said is true
You can't expect to be perfect - after all, it was only your first lesson.
I stopped talking with my friends, but not for long - after all, we are friends. Anyway, I'm planning nice things for the next April 1st.
happening every day/year, etc. over a long period
We went to the same part of France for our holidays year after year.
And there she was, day after day, walking in the rain...
because of something that happened
I'll never trust her again after what she did to me.
I really needed those days after what I've been through this spring.
despite
I can't believe he was so rude to you after all the help you've given him!
But, even after earning more in 2001, the women still do not earn as much as men on average earned (£20,363) in 1997.
used to say that something happened or was true although you did not expect it to happen or be true
Helen couldn't come to the party after all.
Cars still enter the city so there will be pollution after all.
used when giving someone or something the same name as another person or thing
It was called the Biko building, after the famous South African.
I called her Lena after my sister.
later than someone or something else
Hilary got here at midday and Nicholas arrived soon after.
I can't go next week - how about the week after?
Hi Joe, I would love to see the film with you. We must have dinner after.
at a later time than something else happens
Soon/shortly after we joined the motorway, the car started to make a strange noise.
I went to the post office straight/immediately after I left you.
I hope we will meet soon after I come back home.
the time between the middle of the day and the evening
It was a sunny afternoon.
She works three afternoons a week at the library.
Let's go to the park this afternoon.
She's coming round on Wednesday afternoon.
He's been in a bad mood all afternoon.
She cooks every afternoon.
at a later time, after something else has happened
We had tea, and afterwards we sat in the garden for a while.
They separated, and soon/shortly afterwards Jane left the country.
Why don't we go for a pizza afterwards?
once more
Could you spell your name again, please?
Throw it away and start again.
Thank you again.
as before
Get some rest and you'll soon be well again.
Unfortunately, it started to rain when we were leaving the town, but five minutes later the weather became warm again.
many times
He played the same song again and again.
I read it again and again and was more and more surprised.
again
Once again I'm left with all the washing-up!
Once again I'm sorry.
repeated from the beginning
We had to start all over again.
After that I went back to my home in Ribeirao Preto to begin my routine all over again.
again after something has happened or been done many times before
The bus was late yet again.
Tom, thank you so much yet again for your interest. This talk is very important to me and to count on you is an honour for our college.
used when adding a fact to something you have just said
I failed my history test - but then again, I didn't do much studying for it.
The fact that people live longer nowadays does have some advantages, but then again it also causes a lot of problems.
competing with or opposing someone or something
Germany are playing against Brazil in the final tonight.
I like it very much because I can play it on the Internet with all of my friends and I can also form a team to play against other teams in tournaments.
next to and touching something
Why don't we put the bed against the wall?
On your left there is a large window and on the right there is a desk between the two cupboards, they are against the wall.
in the opposite direction to
Commuting is not so bad when you are travelling against the traffic.
We had to fight against the wind and the rain.
disagreeing with a plan or activity
She spoke against the decision to close the college.
Are you for or against the proposal?
It is very hard to keep a dog because it makes too much noise and so my Mum is against it.
forbidden by a law
It's against the law to leave a young child alone in the house.
Until that moment, Mary thought her uncle and his friends were smugglers and were doing things against the law.
to have a reason not to like someone or something
I've got nothing against him personally, I just don't think he's the right man for the job.
If you have nothing against taking public transport, I suggest taking a bus.
If you do something against someone's advice, wishes, etc., you do it although they have said you should not or must not.
He flew there against his doctor's advice.
She sold the house even though it was against his wishes.
He was a very ambitious student who wasn't afraid to develop ideas in unconventional ways and pursue his research even against the advice of his supervisors.
If you do or achieve something against all the odds, you succeed although you were not likely to.
We won the game against all odds.
The stormy waters and heavy winds were a great challenge, and almost deemed it impossible for me to succeed, but against all odds I managed to defeat my fears.
the number of years that someone has lived, or that something has existed
I'd guess she's about my age.
We're the same age.
She was 74 years of age when she wrote her first novel.
He left home at the age of 16.
The show appeals to people of all ages.
She is the same age as me.
a particular period of history
the modern age
the nuclear age
I'm going to see "Ice age", it's a good comedy.
the state of being old or becoming old
He is starting to show his age.
Some wines improve with age.
Usually, as the saying goes, we grow wiser with age.
at the young age of 8/17/25, etc
She first appeared on stage at the tender age of 14.
She met my father at the tender age of 14, and she soon knew that this was the man she wanted to stay with for the rest of her life.
of the age of
They've got one daughter, Isabel, aged 3.
Dear teacher, I certainly would like a pen-friend, a girl aged 14 in Britain would be best.
a business that provides a service
an advertising/employment/estate/travel agency
As you know I am employed in a travel agency and last week I started my new English class.
an international organization or government department
an international development agency
Television conveys the weather forecasts and any warnings issued by the government agencies, such as flood alerts.
a list of subjects that people will discuss at a meeting
There are several items on the agenda.
Your memo was one of the points on the agenda for last week's meeting.
important subjects that have to be dealt with
The issue of rail safety is back on the political agenda.
Postponing the age of retirement is not a realistic solution either, in view of the fact that there are more than 20 million unemployed people in the European Union. The matter has only recently been put on the agenda, and nobody seems to know what to do.
someone whose job is to deal with business for someone else
Please contact our agent in Spain for further information.
I hope the agent will sell it soon.
someone who tries to find out secret information, especially about another country
a secret agent
She interrupted and told the man that she was a secret agent.
a very long time
I've been waiting here for ages.
I feel like I've been here for ages.
angry or violent behaviour towards someone
an act of aggression
However, it can turn into a terrible form of violence and aggression, where the very sense of competition is forgotten and only wild instincts prevail.
behaving in an angry and violent way towards another person
aggressive behaviour
If I criticize him, he gets aggressive and starts shouting.
At such moments he became angry and aggressive.
using forceful methods and determined to succeed
an aggressive marketing campaign
Our competitors pursue a more aggressive marketing strategy, despite the fact that they offer inferior products.
in an aggressive way
Small children often behave aggressively.
They played more aggressively in the second half.
used to refer to a time in the past
He left the house over an hour ago.
We left London ten years ago.
About five months ago, I got a letter from him.
The dinosaurs died out 65 million years ago.
Two months ago I booked a trip to Malta.
If something happened long ago, it happened a great amount of time ago.
I think we met once, long ago.
It was not long ago that I last saw him.
Not so long ago, you could ring each Dutch doorbell of your choice at 6 pm and you'd find the whole family gathered around the kitchen table, having their supper.
to have the same opinion as someone
I agree with you.
My father and I don't agree about/on very much.
We all agreed that mistakes had been made.
"You're absolutely right," agreed Jake.
Do you agree with me?
to decide something with someone
We agreed to meet on Sunday.
We couldn't agree on what to buy.
I met him when I travelled to Greece last year and we agreed to meet this year in Switzerland.
to say you will do something that someone asks you to
She agreed to help him.
The bank has agreed to lend me £5000.
When I came home, I told my mother everything and she agreed to put him up.
If two descriptions, statements, etc. agree, they are the same.
Her notes do not agree with what I remember happening.
Does the information in the two reports agree?
This does not agree with the intentions of our Programme.
a promise or decision made between two or more groups or people
an agreement with the company
an agreement between both parties
It was difficult to reach an agreement.
The government has signed an international agreement on climate change.
They have broken the agreement on human rights.
There was an attempt to cut down on using and producing sprays which destroy the ozone layer and an international agreement was signed.
when people have the same opinion or have made the same decision
Are we all in agreement?
There was broad agreement about/on what to do.
With your agreement we could change the programme.
farming
Agriculture is still largely based on traditional methods in some countries.
The area depends on agriculture for most of its income.
People who live in big cities suffer from air pollution and noise, and villagers suffer from chemicals used for agriculture.
in front
Turn left at the traffic lights, and you'll see the hospital straight ahead.
Behind our school there was a beautiful forest and if you walked 200 meters straight ahead you would reach a clearing .
in the future
She has a difficult time ahead of her.
Even if you're satisfied with your life now, take a look 10 or 20 years ahead.
having more points than someone else in a competition
Barcelona was ahead after ten minutes.
before the time that was planned
We finished the project ahead of schedule.
However, a bonus will be given if the project finishes ahead of schedule.
making more progress than someone or something else
Sue is ahead of everyone else in French.
I have always been a couple of steps ahead of my schoolmates and peers, not only in terms of scholastic pursuits, but in my opinions and desires as well.
money, food, or equipment that is given to help a country or group of people
Emergency aid was sent to the flood victims.
aid workers
Many people in poorer nations die without proper medical aid.
in order to collect money for a group of people who need it
a concert in aid of famine relief
It would be an honour for us students at the centre if you could attend our sports function in aid of stressed out kids and present the prizes.
using something to help you
She can walk with the aid of a stick.
The newest computer can handle data that human brains cannot and therefore all scientific research is carried out with the aid of computers.
a piece of equipment that helps you to do something
teaching aids such as books and videos
Also, it would be an excellent aid if a new laser printer was bought, so as to make more copies in less time.
to help someone
The project is designed to aid the homeless.
He was aided in his research by his knowledge of Greek.
Some people believe that it is essential for both poorer and rich countries that the rich countries aid the poorer ones, and this is my opinion, for a number of plausible reasons.
the purpose of doing something, and what you hope to achieve
He went to Paris with the aim of improving his French.
My main aim is to make people laugh.
The aim was to get a picture of each person.
to intend to achieve something
I aim to be a millionaire by the time I'm 35.
Our English Club aims to help students with their English.
to be intended to influence or affect a particular person or group
These advertisements are specifically aimed at young people.
PIAZZA is too modern and is aimed at the young.
to be intended to achieve a particular thing
a plan aimed at reducing traffic
Working within projects aimed at improving local agricultural output, I stayed 3 years in South America.
travel in an aircraft
I don't travel much by air.
air travel
I will travel there by air.
the mixture of gases which surrounds the Earth and which we breathe
I went outside to get some fresh air.
There are lots of different kinds of animals, lakes, fresh air and trees.
the space above and around things
He kicked the ball high in the air.
It was an old painting. In it, a man was holding his axe up in the air and was ready to hit a tree.
on television or radio
The radio station is on air from 6.00 a.m.
It is on air at 8.30 p.m. every Thursday and Saturday.
a particular appearance or quality
He has an air of authority.
The service is excellent and the atmosphere is quite nice, with an air of elegance.
If an argument or discussion clears the air, people feel less angry or upset after it.
It was an unpleasant argument, but at least it cleared the air.
I rushed into the room to cheer them up and clear the air, although I knew it was too late.
to suddenly disappear in a mysterious way
He was on the path ahead of me and then vanished into thin air.
Sitting on a couch and squeezed between my elderly aunts, I sincerely wished I could vanish into thin air.
someone or something that is new, different, and exciting
Having Eve around has been a breath of fresh air.
The final suggestion is focused on building a leisure centre. Should this be everything the Town Council has promised, it will bring a breath of fresh air.
the system used for keeping the air in a building or vehicle cool
I wish my car had air conditioning.
The rooms are big and there's cable TV and air conditioning.
any vehicle, with or without an engine, which can fly, such as a plane or helicopter
military/commercial aircraft
They have all the Swedish aircraft that have ever been built.
the part of a country's military organization that uses aircraft to fight wars
an air force pilot
During the day you can visit all of our museums or schools or even the air force base, which is open from 9.00 until 18.00.
a company that provides regular flights to places
What airline did you fly?
She explained the situation to the authorities and because there was no flight back to London, the airline had no choice but to pay for her stay.
a place where aircraft regularly take off and land, with buildings for passengers to wait in
an international airport
Gatwick Airport
an airport terminal/runway
The lake is not far from the airport.
a loud noise that warns you of danger
a burglar/car/fire/smoke alarm
to set off an alarm
It turned out that the fire alarm had gone off and they had to evacuate the building.
a clock or device in a watch, mobile phone, etc. that makes a noise to wake you
The alarm went off at 5.30 and she got up immediately.
Suddenly the alarm started to ring and I woke up to go to school.
a sudden feeling of fear or worry that something bad might happen
There's no need for alarm - it is completely safe.
Fortunately, her soothing voice damped down any sense of alarm.
to warn someone of a dangerous situation
Her parents raised the alarm when she failed to return home.
A local doctor was the first to raise the alarm about this latest virus.
For them, raising the alarm because of five percent unemployment is an example of so-called 'loony-left thinking'.
to make someone worried or frightened
I don't want to alarm you but he really should be here by now.
What alarmed us the most was the daring use of speculation by the author.
a clock that you can set to wake you up at a particular time with a loud noise
My alarm clock went off at 5.00.
I've set the alarm clock for 7.30.
He gave me an alarm clock so I won't be late for school any more.
causing worry or fear
alarming news
Crime has been increasing at an alarming rate.
Moreover, the alarming frequency of heart attacks in Poland has made people stop eating too much fat.
although
He tried, albeit without success.
If and when homework, household chores and social duties had been dealt with, we were free to pursue our own designs, albeit usually hampered by a younger child tagging along.
several songs or pieces of music on a CD, a record, etc.
They've just make/recorded a new album.
Jovanotti has a new album out.
I got a CD-player and a new album by U2 and a new book by Jeanette Winterson.
a book in which you keep photographs, stamps, etc.
We looked through his photo albums together.
He gave me a photo album.
drinks such as wine and beer which can make you drunk
Most wines contain between 10% and 15% alcohol.
an alcohol-free lager
The party was excellent. We danced, ate, drank alcohol and...
containing alcohol
alcoholic drinks
I'm only 15 years old and not allowed to drink alcoholic drinks.
regularly drinking too much alcohol and unable to stop the habit
She lived with her alcoholic father.
Numerous examples of divorced couples, alcoholic parents, orphans, and children without principles, should stay in our minds.
someone who regularly drinks too much alcohol and cannot stop the habit
He became an alcoholic when his wife left him.
The quality of the orchestra was poor - it only consisted of amateurs - and the conductor was drunk - he was an alcoholic.
quick to notice and react to things around you
A young dog should be alert and playful.
Teachers need to be alert to sudden changes in students' behaviour.
A little bit of tension is alright - I guess it keeps you alert while driving.
to warn someone of a possibly dangerous situation
Six hours later she still wasn't home so they alerted the police.
Karl Marx alerted us all to the fact that work can cause alienation, and that repetitive tasks, or tasks which do not involve a great deal of interaction with other human beings, can make us feel estranged.
a warning about a possibly dangerous situation
a bomb alert
Don't forget to take care of your personal belongings - it won't cause a bomb alert like at Victoria but may get lost!
similar
The children all look very alike.
First of all, Jem and Joss Merlyn look alike physically.
in a similar way
We think alike.
My father treated us all alike.
used after referring to two groups of people or things to show that both groups are included
Friends and family alike were shocked by the news of her death.
It was indeed a great treat for old and young alike.
living, not dead
He must be ninety if he's still alive.
It was a bad fall - she's lucky to be alive.
I was very happy that my father was still alive.
to continue to live or exist and be full of energy, or to be popular or successful
She said she'd seen him last week and he was alive and kicking.
Despite rumours to the contrary, feminism is alive and well.
He was a farmer who had been working in the fields for more than sixty years, but was still alive and kicking.
full of activity and excitement
The bar was alive with the sound of laughter.
The city comes alive at night.
Normally you would pass by without noticing it, but once a year Roskilde comes alive.
continuing to exist
Local people are fighting to keep the language alive.
Thirdly, it keeps the village alive, since many people from other villages come to celebrate with them, and our national heritage (traditional songs, dances, costumes) is kept alive too.
every person or thing in a group
I've seen all of his films.
All of us had left by midnight.
She's got four children, all under the age of five.
"Which of his books did you like best?" "I loved them all."
I hope you are all well.
the whole of a period of time
I've been studying all day.
It's rained all week.
I've been waiting all afternoon for him to call.
I spent all day at the beach.
the whole amount of something
I've spent all my money.
Have you drunk all the juice?
By morning, all the snow had gone.
I have left my purse at your home. I have all my money in it.
many different types of something
They had all sorts of jewellery for sale.
We saw all sorts of animals in the park.
I like all sorts of music but I prefer urban music!
used to say that you hope someone will be happy, healthy, successful, etc., often when saying goodbye
All the best, then - it was nice to meet you!
Please wish him all the best for his new job.
I want to wish you all the best!
continuously
I wish you'd stop criticizing me all the time.
He laughs all the time.
the only thing
All I remember is waking up in hospital.
All you can do is hope he'll get better.
Actually, I lost my job last week. All I can do is buy a computer and get on the internet to find another job.
used for emphasis in questions or negative statements, to mean in any way or of any type
Can I help at all?
He hasn't changed at all.
The sun was shining and there were no clouds at all, so we could see the light blue sky.
most importantly
Above all, I'd like to thank my family.
He is known above all for his film roles.
She is a very nice person and above all, she is really cheerful.
used to add information that shows that what you have just said is true
You can't expect to be perfect - after all, it was only your first lesson.
I stopped talking with my friends, but not for long - after all, we are friends. Anyway, I'm planning nice things for the next April 1st.
everything is in a good or acceptable state
I hope all is well with Jack.
I hope all's well.
used for saying that other similar things are included or that the whole of a situation is considered
He told us about his school and all that.
We decided to stay in bed, with it being a holiday and all that.
I really enjoy shopping for clothes, but not only for clothes, also for things like earrings and all that!
used to show the total amount of something
Some of the children came, so there were 15 of us in all.
Secondly, even though most people liked the group RADIANT, they only played for 35 minutes in all.
suddenly and unexpectedly
All of a sudden, he came bursting in through the door.
All of a sudden, a weird creature popped into his dream.
repeated from the beginning
We had to start all over again.
After that I went back to my home in Ribeirao Preto to begin my routine all over again.
used to say that something happened or was true although you did not expect it to happen or be true
Helen couldn't come to the party after all.
Cars still enter the city so there will be pollution after all.
used for saying that something is true in general if you think about all its aspects
The show was a great success, all things considered.
All things considered, it seems like "Kavanagh Catering Services" would be most suitable for the students.
very late at night, until early morning, or almost all the time
Our neighbours are up till all hours every night, playing loud music.
This causes traffic jams at all hours of the day.
despite
For all her qualifications, she's useless at the job.
For all of his desire to be strong, Okonkwo is haunted by fear.
many different types of people or things
We saw people there of all shapes and sizes.
Personal Challenges come in all shapes and sizes.
completely or very
The cake was all eaten last night.
You're all wet!
Tell me all about your holiday.
I'm going to tell you all about it.
everywhere in a particular place
He's travelled all over the world.
The people in the class are from all over the world.
used to say that two players or teams have the same number of points in a game
It was 3 all at half time.
from the beginning of a period of time
I knew all along that it was a mistake.
In the future the key word for fashion will be comfort as this is basically what everyone has been wanting all along.
considering everything
All in all, it was a great holiday.
All in all, nobody cares about air pollution and the environment in general.
in or to many different places
There were dirty dishes all over the place.
I am thinking of dog-dirt on the pavements, cans all over the place, and a lot of disgusting paintings on the walls in the public toilets, the underground and so on.
suddenly
All at once he stood up and walked out of the room.
All at once, everything started to work again.
used to show that you do not agree with something or that you are annoyed about something
It's all very well for her to say everything's fine, she doesn't have to live here.
That's all very well for most of the people but according to my desires it's not enough. I envisage a more sophisticated flat.
to be ready
We were all set to go when the phone rang.
So, there you go. I'm all set!
much better, easier, more exciting, etc.
The journey was all the more dangerous because of the bad weather.
He had to overcome great obstacles in his professional and private lives, which makes his achievements all the more remarkable.
almost
The film was all but over by the time we arrived.
He could all but hear their stomachs rumble.
when you say that someone has done something wrong or illegal, without proof that this is true
allegations of corruption
Several of her patients have made allegations of professional misconduct against her.
He denied allegations that he had cheated.
Contrary to Mrs Jones' allegation, the exam results of our college are first-class and, moreover, there is an extremely varied social programme organised.
to say that something is true or state something as a fact without giving proof
The teacher is alleged to have hit a student.
He alleges that Bates attacked him.
Advocates of perpetual economic growth allege that the world in which we live is a better place compared to what it was a long time ago.
believed to be true, but not proved
an alleged attack
Besides, as far as the alleged "downpour of rain" is concerned, there was, in reality, only a small April shower which lasted not more than 10 minutes.
in a way that is believed to be true, but is not proved
That's where he allegedly killed his wife.
When he was at his peak, he allegedly got involved in drugs and heroin.
an agreement between countries or political parties to work together to achieve something
Egbert extended his control over Cornwall, defeating an alliance between the Vikings and the Britons at Hingston Down in 838.
Arthur died and both the Spanish Hapsburgs and the Tudors wanted to continue their alliance.
joined by a formal agreement
the allied powers
During the Second World War, he joined the US Navy and was then sent on a mission to Brazil with the aim of patrolling the coasts to avoid a German bombing of allied ships.
to give some time, money, space, etc. to be used for a particular purpose
The government has promised to allocate extra money for health care.
More police time should be allocated to crime prevention.
We also think that the gym is under-used because of the lack of equipment, thus we would ask for some funding to be allocated to the purchase of more equipment.
an amount of money, time, space, etc. that is allocated
They have had their allocation of fuel.
It is approximately equal to the US in government allocations to child support, but it is still behind Germany (0.25% vs. 2%).
when money, time, space, etc. is allocated
the allocation of funds/resources
However, the latter countries do differ in their allocation of money to services, with the US spending 0.3 per cent of the GDP and Spain spending only 0.1 per cent.
to give someone permission for something
You're not allowed to talk during the exam.
Pets aren't allowed in this hotel.
The referee decided to allow the goal.
I have very strict teachers and they won't allow me to enter the classroom if I'm late.
to plan to use a particular amount of money, time, etc. for something
Allow three hours for the whole journey.
Please allow more free time in the afternoon for shopping and change the free evening which is on Day 1 in your High Life Programme to another evening.
to make it possible for someone to do something
The extra money will allow me to upgrade my computer.
These activities allow people to forget about their problems, to enjoy themselves and also to communicate with others.
to not prevent something from happening
They have allowed the problem to get worse.
A unanimous effort has to be made in order to improve the situation in education instead of allowing it to deteriorate.
money that you are given regularly, especially to pay for a particular thing
a clothing allowance
She spends most of her allowance quickly and is then without money for the rest of the month.
to remember that someone has a disadvantage which is not their fault when you are judging their behaviour or work
They made allowances for the fact that he was ill.
I would say Mr Stevens is a victim of his sense of duty, which makes him think of marriage as a traitor's act, but I don't know to what extent we should make allowances for his strong convictions.
happening successfully or without problems
Did the interview go all right?
Did he do all right in his exams?
Did you get home all right last night?
Tomorrow I have the day off, so everything is all right!
not hurt or ill
"Harry's just slipped on the ice." "Oh dear! Is he all right?"
She was very ill for a while but she's all right now.
Hi Jo How are you? I hope you are all right.
used as an answer when someone thanks you, or something you say when someone says sorry, to show that you are not angry
"Thanks for getting the tickets." "That's all right."
"I'm sorry, I forgot all about your party." "That's all right."
That's all right. Don't worry about it.
used to ask if you can do something or to say that someone can do something
Is it all right if I put some music on?
It's all right to have your friends round so long as you check with me first.
Is it all right with you if I leave the window open?
I asked him if it was all right if I stayed in his house and Mike answered: "Of course".
good enough, although not very good
"What did you think of the film?" "It was all right. Nothing special."
We arrived by ship and the trip was all right except my friend Tim was ill.
used to agree to a suggestion or request
"How about going out for dinner?" "All right."
"Can we leave at six?" "All right."
All right, tomorrow you get my jacket and wait for me at the bus stop.
someone who supports you, especially when other people are against you
He is generally considered to be the Prime Minister's closest political ally.
The participants are under pressure and they have to find allies and make decisions.
a country that has agreed to help another country, especially in a war
During World War One, Turkey and Germany were allies.
So the allies didn't exclude the Germanies from the world community, including organizations like NATO, the Warsaw Pact or the UN.
If something almost happens, it does not happen but it is very close to happening.
I almost missed the bus.
She's almost thirty.
It was almost six o'clock when he left.
He's almost always late.
Almost all the passengers on the ferry were French.
The boat sank almost immediately it hit the rock.
Did you know that almost the whole class came to my party?
without other people
He likes being alone in the house.
She decided to climb the mountain alone.
Do you like living alone?
She doesn't want to go alone.
to stop talking to someone or annoying them
Leave him alone, he's tired.
"Leave me alone, you monster," I said in panic.
used to emphasize that something is more impossible than another thing
You couldn't trust her to look after your dog, let alone your child.
We are surrounded by amazing pieces of technology which we do not fully understand, let alone use to their full capacity.
used to emphasize that only one person or thing is involved
Last year alone the company made a million dollars.
You alone know how you feel.
The decision was hers and hers alone.
from one part of a road, river, etc. to another
a romantic walk along the beach/river
Last night, we walked along the Thames.
in a line next to or beside something long
a row of houses along the river
Cars were parked all along the road.
To my surprise, there was a charming beach along the cycle route.
at a particular place on a road, river, etc.
Somewhere along this road there's a garage.
She told me that along the road there are several places to visit, like a castle which is open to the public.
based on and similar to something
He gave a talk along the lines of the one he gave in Oxford.
Imagine one is encouraged by friends and institutions for their 'different' artistic or other activities, even if their works are not along the lines of 'acceptable' norms and tradition.
moving forward
We were just walking along, chatting.
with you
Why don't you take him along with you when you go?
I'll bring some food along and we can have a picnic.
My boyfriend came along with me.
from the beginning of a period of time
I knew all along that it was a mistake.
In the future the key word for fashion will be comfort as this is basically what everyone has been wanting all along.
in addition to someone or something else
California along with Florida is probably the most popular American holiday destination.
I speak foreign languages (English, French and Italian) along with Greek.
next to someone or something
A car pulled up alongside ours.
The skyline is filled with huge chimneys displacing tons of gases into the air; millions of vehicles are moving on a highway alongside a dead river, where life flourished a few decades ago.
together with someone
She enjoyed working alongside such famous actors.
Also he worked alongside me at another travel agency for 6 months.
in a way that other people can hear
He read her letter aloud to the rest of the family.
I laughed aloud at some of his comments.
I was just thinking aloud.
Thinking aloud is an old habit of mine.
a set of letters arranged in a fixed order which is used for writing a language
the Cyrillic alphabet
The first evening, we learnt how to spell the alphabet.
arranged in the same order as the letters of the alphabet
an alphabetical list
The names are published in alphabetical order.
She looked again at the strange words and then she understood. Each letter had been replaced by the next one in the alphabetical order.
before now, or before a particular time in the past
I asked him to come to the exhibition but he'd already seen it.
The concert had already begun by the time we arrived.
I've already told him.
Juliana, I am going to start to paint my bedroom tomorrow. I have already bought the paint.
used to say that something has happened earlier than you expected
Are you buying Christmas cards already? It's only September!
I've only eaten one course and I'm already full.
Since I have already reserved a room for myself, I am now sitting on the balcony, watching the beautiful views of the beach and tall pine trees.
happening successfully or without problems
Did the interview go alright?
Did he do alright in his exams?
Did you get home alright last night?
It's good to know you are doing alright at school.
not hurt or ill
"Harry's just slipped on the ice." "Oh dear! Is he alright?"
She was very ill for a while but she's alright now.
Dear Robbie, I hope you're alright.
used as an answer when someone thanks you, or something you say when someone says sorry, to show that you are not angry
"Thanks for getting the tickets." "That's alright."
"I'm sorry, I forgot all about your party." "That's alright."
Well I am angry with you because you did not come to my party but that's alright - after all, you are my friend.
used to ask if you can do something or to say that someone can do something
Is it alright if I put some music on?
It's alright to have your friends round so long as you check with me first.
Is it alright with you if I leave early today?
I want to see the film on Saturday if that's alright with you?
good enough, although not very good
"What did you think of the film?" "It was alright. Nothing special."
Did your exam go alright?
I hope the weather will be alright.
used to agree to a suggestion or request
"How about going swimming?" "Alright."
"Would you look after the children?" "Yes, alright."
in addition
She's a photographer and also writes books.
I'm cold, and I'm also hungry and tired.
I also have a dog and I like to go for a walk with him.
to change, or to make someone or something change
We've had to alter some of our plans.
Giving up our car has altered our lifestyle a lot.
To go to the show, we need to alter the programme.
a change, or the process of changing something
We've made a few alterations to the kitchen.
I hope that my alterations don't give you too much trouble, but I really think that these changes are necessary for full satisfaction among our members.
one out of every two days, weeks, years, etc.
I work alternate Saturdays.
I had to go to a travel agency on alternate weekends in order to translate some programmes into English.
If two things alternate, one thing happens, then the other thing happens, then the first thing happens again, etc.
She alternates between cheerfulness and deep despair.
Xanadu Express promises to serve us food from all over the world and to alternate the menu.
one of two or more things that you can choose between
It's a low-fat alternative to butter.
I'm afraid I have no alternative but to ask you to leave.
Another alternative is to go up the mountain by chairlifts or funicular-railway.
An alternative plan, method, etc. is one that you can use if you do not want to use another one.
We can make alternative arrangements if necessary.
The new direct coach service is an alternative way of getting to Lampton.
different to what is usual or traditional
an alternative lifestyle
I wonder if you've ever heard of "alternative music"?
used to suggest another possibility
We could go to the Indian restaurant, or alternatively, we could try that new Italian place.
Alternatively, I suggest that you should invite a famous writer.
but
He's coming to see us this evening, although I don't know exactly when.
He's rather shy, although he's not as bad as he used to be.
I liked the food although my friends didn't like it.
despite the fact that
She walked home by herself, although she knew that it was dangerous.
There were no taxis on the street so, although it was raining, I started walking in the rain.
in total
There were twenty people there altogether.
That'll be £52.50 altogether, please.
They cost 1700 baht altogether.
completely
She wrote less and less often, and eventually she stopped altogether.
I'm not altogether sure about the idea.
I don't altogether agree with this fact.
when you consider everything
Altogether, I'd say the party was a great success.
Altogether, I believe that the most cruel creature on earth is the human being.
a light, silver-coloured metal used for making containers, cooking equipment and aircraft parts
Cover the fish with aluminium foil and cook over a low heat.
We take all our aluminium cans for recycling.
In the future, jewellery will be made of metals which occur naturally and which are cheap now but will be extremely expensive 100 years from now, such as aluminium and zinc.
every time, or at all times
I always walk to work.
I always try to do my best, because I want to be a good student.
at all times in the past
We've always lived here.
The best present was a mobile phone. I've always wanted it!!!
forever
I'll always remember you.
That was the best weekend of my life. I'll always remember it.
used to suggest something
You can always stay with us if you miss your train.
Watching them painting is better than seeing their art in any museum, and you can always do some sightseeing through our historical ruins, our mountains or villages.
again and again, often in an annoying way
He's always losing his keys.
I am always trying to convince my friend Maria of these dangers.
used to refer to a time between twelve o'clock at night and twelve o'clock in the middle of the day
We're open between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. daily.
The first election results are expected around 1 a.m.
I go to college from 9.15 a.m. to 12.15 p.m.
doing something as a hobby and not as your job
an amateur photographer
Finally I would like to mention that I feel very confident in front of cameras, since I am an amateur actor.
someone who does something as a hobby and not as their job
This tennis tournament is open to both amateurs and professionals.
What I want to explain is that if an amateur sees a professional swimmer winning while wearing our equipment, he is surely going to think that our products helped him succeed, so the amateur is going to buy our equipment too.
someone who is not good at what they do
I won't be giving them any more work - they're a bunch of amateurs.
I admit that I was an amateur, which is why I did not try to do any special "tricks" to impress all those who were watching me.
extremely surprised
She was amazed at how calm she felt after the accident.
I was absolutely amazed when I heard the news.
I was amazed to hear that Chris had won first prize.
I'm amazed (that) she didn't complain.
Dear David Beckham, How are you? I was amazed to find your letter in my mail box.
extreme surprise
She stared in amazement.
To my amazement, he ate the whole lot.
Then, to her amazement, she saw him with another girl.
very good or impressive in some way
This wine is really amazing.
What an amazing meal!
I've bought an amazing mobile phone.
extremely surprising
It's amazing to think that the managing director is only 23.
It's amazing that no one else has applied for the job.
The amazing thing is that it was kept secret for so long.
Dear Richard, It's amazing you didn't forget my birthday.
in an amazing way
The food was amazingly good.
Amazingly enough, no one else has applied for the job.
Amazingly, he didn't come back until midnight.
the main official sent by a government of a country to represent it in another country
Britain's ambassador in Moscow has refused to comment.
She's a former ambassador to the United States.
On the first floor is the "star'' of the museum: a splendid grand piano built in 1893, which was offered by the Queen to the French ambassador in 1895.
when something has more than one possible meaning
Legal documents must be free of ambiguity.
Lastly, there is the ambiguity of her final decision.
having more than one possible meaning
an ambiguous statement
It is hard to choose the right option as the advice given often seems ambiguous.
something you want to achieve
His ambition is to run his own business.
He has already achieved his main ambition in life - to become wealthy.
Learning English is one of my ambitions.
a strong feeling that you want to be successful or powerful
My sister always had more ambition than I did.
Love, hate, ambition and fear of losing are the main subjects for Orson Welles and Tim Burton, the directors of these two films.
wanting to be successful or powerful
an ambitious young lawyer
He's very ambitious for his children.
I chose Omar because I find him very talented and ambitious.
If a plan or idea is ambitious, it will need a lot of work and will be difficult to achieve.
This is our most ambitious project so far.
She has some ambitious plans for her business.
If we accomplish these ambitious plans, we can even run for the 2006 Winter Olympic Games.
a special vehicle used to take ill or injured people to hospital
I called for an ambulance.
an ambulance driver
She called for an ambulance which came at once.
to slightly change the words of a document
The contract has now been amended.
The text could be amended.
a change in the words of a document, or the process of doing this
to make an amendment to the human rights law
In view of the need to clarify all these errors and wrong information, I would urge you to print another report apologising and providing readers with the right figures and possible amendments.
while something else is happening
Security was increased amid fears of further terrorist attacks.
They are involved so much with their occupation that they will respond to an emergency call even when they are amid sweet dreams or having a joyful time with their loved ones.
among
a village set amid rolling hills
So we are mere fading stars in a huge sky, unsubjected to the elapse of time and instead of following the ancient saying "carpe diem", we get lost amid other stars.
in a particular group of people or things
Discuss it among yourselves for a few minutes.
Relax - you're among friends.
There were some good drawings among the rubbish in the pile.
Among my presents, my favourite one is the computer that my parents gave to me.
in the middle of something
I saw a few familiar faces among the crowd.
Rescue teams searched among the ruins for survivors.
If you love nature, you can eat under trees and among flowers.
used to say that there are other details or examples in addition to the ones you are mentioning
It's worth visiting the museum while you're here. There's an exhibition about Darwin and a good collection of paintings, among other things.
To go by tram or bus is a waste of time and travelling by car is - among other things - a waste of money.
one of the most extreme examples of a particular type
He is among the top five tennis players in the country.
It was among the worst zoos I have ever seen.
to each one in a group
She divided the cake among the children.
Although Brazil is the eighth biggest economy in the world and one of the richest countries regarding natural resources, that wealth is not shared equally among the population.
among
There is a need to raise skill levels both amongst those in work and those seeking work.
He was no longer a man amongst others but a man with a free soul...
how much there is of something
They didn't deliver the right amount of sand.
Small amounts of land were used for keeping animals.
I didn't expect the bill to come to this amount.
You wouldn't believe the amount of trouble I've had with this car.
You'll also be able to go out to pubs or night clubs, and you'll spend a very small amount of money.
enough, or more than enough
She's had ample time to get the work done.
There will be three coffee machines on each floor which should provide ample coffee for everyone.
to make someone laugh or smile
The video clips on that website always amuse me.
I think it amuses him to see people make fools of themselves.
"The Blind Owl" - his masterpiece - is a surrealistic novella which has amused critics and ordinary readers for years.
to keep someone interested and help them to have an enjoyable time
I bought a book of crosswords to amuse myself while I was on the train.
Another idea is to call a well-known band to amuse all the young people.
showing that you think something is funny
an amused smile
She was very amused by/at your comments.
When the taxi arrived, he was so amused about the news that an old woman took it.
to keep someone interested and help them to have an enjoyable time
How do you keep an 8-year-old boy amused?
I could keep them amused with my funny stories.
the feeling that you have when something makes you smile or laugh
She looked at him with great amusement.
Carl came last in the race, much to my amusement.
Each made the other one laugh. We had great fun. It was a day with so much amusement, with my best friend John.
an enjoyable way of spending your time
I play the piano, but just for my own amusement.
In particular, computer games are a kind of amusement, for them and for everyone.
funny or entertaining
an amusing story/person/situation
Our teacher is really amusing, he makes people laugh all the time.
used instead of 'a' when the following word begins with a vowel sound
an easy question
an interesting story
an orange
an honour
She is an au pair in England.
similar in some ways
It's often said that life is analogous to a journey.
Raising the price of petroleum will be analogous to providing hurdles for better communication and thus the progress.
a comparison that shows how two things are similar
She draws an analogy between life's events and a game of chance.
The analogy bears striking similarities to the relationship of dependency between humans and their construct, the machines.
to examine the details of something carefully, in order to understand or explain it
Researchers analysed the purchases of 6300 households.
Water samples taken from streams were analysed for contamination by chemicals.
He told me how we can analyse movies.
the process of analysing something
Chemical analysis revealed a high content of copper.
I was interested in Clare's analysis of the situation.
I would not do my school projects without using a computer, because I have to do some statistical analysis.
someone whose job is to study or examine something in detail
a financial/political/systems analyst
As you know I got promotion as a project analyst recently.
examining the details of something carefully, in order to understand or explain it
analytical skills
an analytical mind
Moreover, employers nowadays are seeking the team-working, problem-solving and analytical skills needed for their company.
a relative who lived a long time ago
My ancestors came from Ireland.
We are living in a technologically advanced world where we are surrounded by all sorts of devices, which would seem fantastic to our ancestors.
a heavy, metal object that is dropped into water to stop a boat from moving
We dropped anchor in a quiet bay and swam.
Meanwhile, the captain had set the anchor.
someone or something that gives support when needed
She was my anchor when things were difficult for me.
Yet she had still been fond of his picture, he was her anchor.
to stop a boat from moving by dropping a heavy metal object into the water
Every night we used to anchor in different bays to spend the night.
to make something or someone stay in one position by fastening them firmly
We anchored ourselves to the rocks with a rope.
It was stronger, much more intense than text or video footage could ever be, for this unmoving image, having been anchored in space and time, solidified its content so as to have an almost physical impact on the viewer.
from a long time ago
ancient Greece/Rome/Egypt
ancient monuments/ruins
People have lived in this valley since ancient times.
I would recommend you to visit Rome, because you shouldn't miss seeing the huge monuments, the ancient Roman ruins and the Vatican.
used to join two words, phrases, parts of sentences or related statements together
Ann and Jim
knives and forks
We kissed and hugged each other.
Tidy up your room. And don't forget to make your bed!
I have got a nice bed, a mirror, a sofa and a table.
used to say that one thing happens after another thing
I got dressed and had my breakfast.
I get up early in the morning and I have breakfast. Then I go to college.
used when saying or adding numbers
It cost a hundred and twenty pounds.
Two and three equals five.
It's about two and a half hours.
used instead of 'to' after some verbs, such as 'try' and 'go'
Try and eat something.
I asked him to go and find my glasses.
Wait and see what happens.
I hope to go and see Disneyland.
used after a list of things to show that you could have added other similar things
She plays a lot of tennis and squash and so on.
I like watching television, playing on the computer, reading books and so on.
used between two words which are the same to make their meaning stronger
She spends hours and hours on the telephone.
The sound grew louder and louder.
We laughed and laughed.
The situation became harder and harder.
a spiritual creature in stories or some religions, usually represented as a human with wings
According to the Bible, an angel told Mary that she would have God's son, Jesus.
I like to wear a top with a picture of an angel that my mother bought for me as my birthday present.
a strong feeling against someone who has behaved badly, making you want to shout at them or hurt them
I think he feels a lot of anger towards his father who treated him very badly as a child.
The people showed no surprise or anger at their treatment.
Trisha, who had invited us there, looked like she was about to explode with anger or burst into tears.
the space between two lines or surfaces at the point at which they touch each other, measured in degrees
an angle of 90 degrees
The interior angles of a square are right angles.
Carriers are to be requested to stick to the regulations which set the approach and takeoff angles at no less than 45 degrees.
not horizontal or vertical, but sloping
He wore his hat at an angle.
The boat settled into the mud at a 35 degree angle.
After purchasing the G5X-1 food processor from your shop last month I discovered, upon connecting it to the mains socket and switching it on, that I needed to tilt the unit at an angle for it to work.
the direction from which you look at something
This is the same building photographed from different angles.
It is possible to see all the paintings from different angles. You can also zoom in and out.
the way you think about a situation
Try looking at the problem from another angle.
To be a child is to see the world from a different angle.
in an angry way
"Don't do that!" she shouted angrily.
Demonstrators protested angrily following the jury's verdict.
The Prime Minister reacted angrily to claims that he had lied to the House of Commons.
"How dare she do that to me?" I thought, angrily.
having a strong feeling against someone who has behaved badly, making you want to shout at them or hurt them
He's really angry at/with me for upsetting Sophie.
I don't understand what he's angry about.
They feel angry that their complaints were ignored.
I got really angry with her.
It made me really angry.
Dear Ally, I'm so sorry you couldn't come to my birthday party, but don't worry, I'm not angry with you.
something that lives and moves but is not a human, bird, fish or insect
wild/domestic animals
She's a real animal lover.
I like flowers and baby animals.
anything that lives and moves, including people, birds, etc.
Are humans the only animals to use language?
I think the human is an animal that wants to do amusing things.
An animated film is one in which drawings and models seem to move.
He makes animated films.
It's a funny animated film about a superhero family.
showing a lot of interest and excitement
an animated conversation
They watched as their fellow travellers appeared to have an animated discussion with the driver of the car.
an animated film, or the process of making animated films
a course in computer animation
It's a comedy animation about penguins.
the joint between the foot and the leg, or the thin part of the leg just above the foot
I fell over and sprained/twisted my ankle.
I have broken my ankle and I need to stay in bed during the day.
the day on which an important event happened in a previous year
We always celebrate our wedding anniversary with dinner in an expensive restaurant.
Tomorrow is the fiftieth anniversary of the revolution.
She and her husband are touring Europe for a second honeymoon, on the 10th anniversary of their marriage.
to tell people about something officially or with force or confidence
The Prime Minister has just announced that public spending will be increased next year.
The company has announced plans to open six new stores.
After dinner, they announced the winner of the competition.
The TV has just announced a bus-drivers strike for tomorrow morning.
something that someone says officially, giving information about something
The President made an unexpected announcement this morning.
I heard about this club in a radio announcement.
to make someone angry
Tim really annoyed me in the meeting this morning.
I'm sorry - is my cough annoying you?
It annoys me that she just expects us to help.
It really annoys me when people expect me to tip as well as pay a service charge in a restaurant.
My bed makes a loud noise when I lie down on it. It annoys me.
the feeling of being annoyed
He kept losing his keys, much to the annoyance of his wife.
This caused a lot of annoyance, so I suggest next year you make some kind of arrangement for booking the places on the computer room in advance.
angry
I was so annoyed with him for turning up late.
He was annoyed at the way she tried to take over the whole meeting.
My parents were rather annoyed (that) I hadn't told them about the accident.
She was annoyed to discover that her husband had taken her car keys.
I was a bit annoyed when I found out, but it's all right.
making you feel annoyed
It's really annoying when a train is late and there's no explanation.
He's got a really annoying laugh.
Do you like going shopping with your mom? They are sometimes annoying, aren't they?
happening once every year, or relating to a period of one year
an annual event/visit/holiday
annual income/salary
I never miss the annual sale at the department store near my place.
once every year
Your starting salary is £28,000 per year and will be reviewed annually.
Dear Mr Benson, I am writing with regard to your letter, in which you asked me to give you some pieces of advice for the special events which take place in the College annually.
not giving a name
an anonymous phone call/letter
The winner has asked to remain anonymous.
Because the internet does provide the possibility of staying anonymous, it is very hard to find the people who use it for illegal or criminal actions.
one more person or thing, or an additional amount
I'm going to have another piece of cake.
"Would you get me a bar of chocolate from the kitchen?" "Another one?"
For another £30, you can buy the model with remote control.
Just think, in another three months it'll be summer again.
I need it because I will travel and I don't have another bag.
a different person or thing of the same type
She's finished with that boyfriend and found herself another (one).
Do you want to exchange this toaster for another (one) or do you want your money back?
I don't need it because I'm going to buy another.
each other
How can they reach an agreement if they won't talk to one another?
We know one another from Poland.
used to talk about an occasion in the past without saying exactly which occasion it was
Most of us have made a similar mistake at one time or another.
Haven't we all at one time or another come home from a holiday feeling healthy and strong with a smile on our face thinking, this is what life is about.
what you say or write back to someone who has asked you a question or spoken to you
I asked him if he was going but I didn't hear his answer.
Please give me your answer by next week.
Please, give me an answer.
information given as a reply to a question in a test, exercise, competition, etc.
Did you get the answer to Question 6?
I got eight correct answers and two wrong ones in last week's exam.
We had to fill in our questionnaires and discuss the answers in our class.
when someone answers the door or telephone
I've just rung him but there was no answer.
I called her, but there was no answer.
a way of solving a problem
It's a difficult situation and I don't know what the answer is.
So what's the answer to the problem?
There's no easy answer to the problem.
Should wild animals be kept in cages, and denied their freedom so that we can have the pleasure of watching them in zoos? Well, there's no simple answer to that question.
to speak or write back to someone who has asked you a question
You haven't answered my question.
I wrote asking whether he'd be coming to the party but he hasn't answered yet.
She answered that she wouldn't be able to come before nine o'clock.
My teacher gives me questions and I have to answer.
to open the door to someone or pick up the telephone
Could someone answer the phone?
Someone's at the door - would you answer it, please?
I phone you, but you don't answer!
to write or say something as a reply to a question in a test, exercise, competition, etc.
I couldn't answer the last three questions.
That was to be my first interview, and I had never before answered a test of personality so I felt insecure.
a small, black or red insect that lives in groups on the ground
There were ants crawling all over the ground.
I have known Larry since I was five years old and he couldn't hurt an ant, I am sure about it.
a medicine which cures infections by destroying harmful bacteria
He is on antibiotics for an ear infection.
Nevertheless, for all the side effects they may have, for all the unpleasantness of having a needle stuck in your arm or a spoonful of foul-tasting liquid stuck in your mouth, antibiotics and vaccines remain the greatest discovery in the history of the world.
to expect something, or to prepare for something before it happens
to anticipate a problem
We anticipate that prices will fall next year.
Moreover, it is anticipated that the percentage of the group will rise further in 2010.
when you are waiting for something to happen, usually with excitement
The children were breathless with anticipation.
Yet, what I remember and think is going to stay with me for the rest of my life is that wonderful atmosphere of a fairy tale which has come true, that feeling of excitement and anticipation of something marvellous about to happen.
expecting something to happen or in preparation for something happening
She's even decorated the spare room in anticipation of your visit.
This has sometimes resulted in the comic phenomenon of people travelling to a distant country, in anticipation of encountering strange and original lifestyles, only to come across situations not very different from the one they have left in their own countries.
an object that is old, and often rare or beautiful
an antique shop
My mother collects antiques.
First we drove to the old city where there were lots of different shops selling clothes, shoes, antiques, and jewellery.
old and often rare or beautiful
antique furniture
antique silver/jewellery
There's a nice, cosy lobby, with antique furniture and a fireplace.
Anti-social behaviour harms or upsets the people around you.
Increasingly, smoking is regarded as an anti-social habit.
It cannot be denied that nowadays children and young people are showing many problems, such as anti-social behaviour.
An anti-social person does not like being with other people.
I hope they won't think I'm anti-social if I don't go to the party.
Technology has developed so much that it has made us very anti-social.
the feeling of being very worried
Children normally feel a lot of anxiety about their first day at school.
That explains his anxiety over his health.
On the other hand, if we consider this statement in general, we could infer that the teenage years are quite a good time in a person's life, as there is no stress or anxiety that is usually encountered later on in life.
worried and nervous
He's very anxious about his exams.
My mother always gets a bit anxious if we're late.
I saw my sister's anxious face at the window.
I am a bit anxious about my mum's reaction, but I am sure she'll enjoy this party.
wanting to do something or wanting something to happen
I'm anxious to hear her news.
I'm anxious that we get there on time because I don't think there'll be many seats left.
I am very anxious for you to tell me what type of competition you managed to win.
in an anxious way
We waited anxiously by the phone.
I am waiting for your reply anxiously.
used in questions and negatives to mean some
"Is there any more soup?" "No, I'm afraid there isn't any left."
I haven't seen any of his films.
I asked Andrew for some change but he hasn't got any.
She doesn't want any more children.
one of or each of a particular kind of person or thing when it is not important which
"Which of these cakes may I eat?" "Any."
Any of you should be able to answer this question.
Any advice that you can give me would be greatly appreciated.
We should hear from him any minute/day/time now.
There were a lot of computers at the exhibition, any (one) of which would have suited me perfectly.
When I was a child, I liked reading any cartoon book, so my parents bought many books for me.
If you do not do something or something does not happen any more, you have stopped doing it or it does not now happen.
I don't do yoga any more.
I don't need it any more because I have a new one.
used in questions and negatives to emphasize a comparative adjective or adverb
Do you feel any better?
I can't walk any faster.
Those trousers don't look any different from the others.
Houses in this area used to be a real bargain, but they're not cheap any more.
This radio isn't any good - I'll have to buy another.
She couldn't wait any longer.
I couldn't wait any longer - I had to see Sami.
used in questions and negatives to mean 'a person or people'
I haven't asked anybody yet.
Does anybody arrive in the office before 7 o'clock?
You don't need to ask anybody.
any person or any people
Anybody can join the club and the membership is free.
The competition is open to anybody under the age of 16.
Anybody could understand it!
despite that
He hates carrots but he ate them anyhow.
It wasn't a great support, but anyhow I consider my choice to be the best I could have made.
used when you are returning to an earlier subject
Anyhow, as I said, I'll be away next week.
After that we drove for about one hour before we had to take a lunch break. It was still very hot when we continued our trip and we had to stop once more. Anyhow, we got to Munich the same day, where we stayed for two days.
used to give a more important reason for something that you are saying
I don't need a car and I can't afford one anyhow.
We both thought that it was a good idea to have that stop-over at your place as it was on our route to Norway anyhow.
used when you want to slightly change something that you have just said
Boys aren't horrible - not all of them anyhow!
If you do not do something or something does not happen anymore, you have stopped doing it or it does not now happen.
This shirt doesn't fit me anymore - would you like it?
I want to sell my radio. I don't use it anymore because I'm going to go to America next week.
used in questions and negatives to mean 'a person or people'
I haven't told anyone.
Was there anyone you knew at the meeting?
I think I left my mobile phone in your house yesterday. Please bring it to me or I can't speak to anyone.
any person or any people
Anyone can go - you don't have to be invited.
Anyone could dress well with all that money.
The third programme was a joke competition. Anyone could come there and tell his joke.
used in questions or negatives to mean 'something'
Is there anything I can do to help?
I didn't eat anything.
Did you notice anything strange about him?
Was there anything else you wanted to say?
When I'm speaking in class I'm very nervous and I can't say anything.
any object, event, situation, etc.
Tom will eat anything!
We can do anything you like.
I like spaghetti bolognese or lasagne. But I eat anything.
used to talk or ask about things of a similar type
Do you want a drink or anything?
Did you do any sightseeing or anything?
used in questions and negatives to mean 'at all similar to'
Does he look anything like his brother?
Even in my dreams I haven't seen anything like it.
despite that
Her parents were opposed to her giving up her course, but she did it anyway.
Dear Jo, You can call me for this information but I will write it here anyway.
used when you are returning to an earlier subject or changing the subject
Anyway, I'll be away next week.
Anyway, in the end I didn't wear your jacket.
I hope everything will be O.K... anyway you have my phone number.
used to give a more important reason for something that you are saying
I don't have time to go and anyway it's too expensive.
Of course I don't mind taking you home - I'm going that way anyway.
I'm going to buy a new bed, because the old one has broken, and anyway it wasn't very comfortable.
in or to any place
Did you go anywhere interesting this summer?
Go anywhere in the world and you'll find some sort of hamburger restaurant.
I like that bicycle because I can go anywhere with it without anyone's help.
used in questions and negatives to mean 'a place'
Is there anywhere in particular you wanted to go to eat tonight?
I can't find my keys anywhere.
Is there anywhere else you'd like to visit?
Do you know anywhere interesting and how can I get there?
to not make any progress
I tried discussing the problem with her but I didn't get anywhere.
If we think about making an effort and changing our daily routine at once, we will never get anywhere because a drastic change usually does not last.
used in questions and negatives to mean 'close to being or doing something'
The house isn't anywhere near ready.
We could not have gone anywhere near 5000 miles because all our minibuses were broken down - we even stayed in one place for 8 days.
except for or in addition to
Apart from the low salary, it's a great job!
He works until nine o'clock every evening, and that's quite apart from the work he does over the weekend.
So, when he started to speak, I couldn't understand anything apart from "thanks".
separated by a space, distance or period of time
Stand with your feet wide apart.
How far apart should the speakers be?
We were asked to stand in two lines three metres apart.
I forget the exact age difference between Mark and his brother - they're two or three years apart.
They are situated on the same street, only a hundred metres apart, on each side of the street.
If two people are apart, they are not in the same place together.
By this time my parents were living apart.
I'll always remember those two days which we spent together after such a long time living apart.
into separate, smaller pieces
I took the motor apart to see how it worked.
My jacket is so old, it's coming apart.
to be complete opposites
They are poles apart in their attitudes to religion.
Soho at night seemed to be the nicest place on Earth, poles apart from my home town.
a set of rooms for living in, especially on one floor of a building
I'll give you the keys to my apartment.
They have six luxury apartments for sale.
Please come to my apartment at 4.00.
showing or saying that you are sorry about something
an apologetic smile
She was very apologetic about missing the meeting.
I am deeply apologetic if my letter troubled anybody or was too boring to read, but I had to say my opinion out loud.
to tell someone that you are sorry about something you have done
I must apologise to Isobel for my behaviour.
Trains may be subject to delay - we apologise for any inconvenience caused.
She apologised for having to leave early.
I'm writing to apologise because I won't be at tomorrow's class.
something you say or write to say that you are sorry about something you have done
I have an apology to make to you - I'm afraid I opened your letter by mistake.
I owe you an apology, Chris.
"Was he at all sorry for what he'd done?" "Oh he was full of apologies."
Hi Zita, Please accept my apology for this belated letter which you're holding in your hands.
the punctuation mark ' that shows when a letter or a number has been left out, or is used before or after 's' to show possession
"It's" with an apostrophe means "it is" or "it has".
I'm Ian.
She was born in '65.
Helen's laugh
Charles' cooking
a baby's hand
babies' hands
very bad
appalling behaviour/weather
The film was absolutely appalling!
Also, they believe that their ability to watch videos is handicapped by the fact that some of the equipment is in an appalling condition.
shocking and very unpleasant
appalling brutality/injuries
Prisoners were kept in the most appalling conditions.
Susan Hill's 'I'm the King of The Castle' is a psychological book about the appalling cruelty and emotions between two pubescent boys.
obvious or easy to notice
Her unhappiness was apparent to everyone.
It was becoming increasingly apparent that he could no longer look after himself.
I was on the metro this morning when for no apparent reason the man opposite suddenly screamed.
This was my Dad, always doing weird things for no apparent reason.
seeming to exist or be true
I was a little surprised by her apparent lack of interest.
In conclusion, our research shows the residents' apparent unwillingness to transform Greendale Park into a car park.
used to say you have read or been told something although you are not certain it is true
Apparently it's going to rain today.
Apparently he's had enough of England and is going back to Australia.
Apparently he was planning to visit me and surprise me for my birthday, which was the following day.
used to say that something seems to be true, although it is not certain
There were two apparently unrelated deaths.
An eighty-year-old woman was badly hurt in what the police describe as an apparently random attack.
People found it important and still do but apparently, today, we don't appreciate reading as much as our ancestors.
the quality in someone or something that makes them attractive or interesting
sex appeal
Spielberg films have a wide appeal.
Parties on river-boats have lost their appeal since one sank last year.
In my opinion, computer games are so popular because the games have developed their graphics and they have more appeal to youngsters.
when a lot of people are asked to give money, information or help urgently
They're launching an appeal to raise money for famine victims.
The police have issued an appeal to the public to stay away from the centre of town at the weekend.
I would suggest that the local authorities with the support of the community and companies start an appeal, to raise money to keep St. Mary's running.
to attract or interest someone
Cycling has never really appealed to me.
It's a programme designed to appeal mainly to 16 to 25 year-olds.
In addition, books appeal to our imagination.
to make a serious or formal request, especially to the public, for money or help
They're appealing for clothes and blankets to send to the devastated region.
The police are appealing to the public for any information about the missing girl.
to formally ask someone to change an official or legal decision
He is appealing against a ten-year prison sentence.
to start to be seen
He suddenly appeared in the doorway.
Then a bright light appeared in the sky.
Suddenly the singer of the band appeared.
to perform in a film, play, etc.
She appears briefly in the new Bond film.
What I like the most is that I'm going to appear on T.V.
to seem
He appeared calm and relaxed.
There appears to be some mistake.
But, the reality is, that life appears very short to me.
used to say that something seems to be true
It appears that she left the party alone.
It appears that people are more aware about clothes and also work.
to start to exist or become available
Laptop computers first appeared in the 1980s.
The story appeared in all the major newspapers.
In almost every city fast-food restaurants have appeared, which have a big group of fans.
used to say that something seems to be true
It would appear that nobody on board the aircraft actually had a licence to fly it.
It would appear that students are not satisfied with the hours and days offered by the Club.
the way a person or thing looks to other people
The buildings are very similar in appearance.
You can alter/change the whole appearance of a room just by lighting it in a certain way.
She gives the appearance of being very efficient.
I usually buy fashionable clothes, because I think your appearance is really important.
when someone appears in public, on television, in a film, etc.
It was his first appearance on television/television appearance as president.
She made two appearances during her visit.
She will be making a public appearance, signing copies of her latest novel.
You probably know him, because he made an appearance in the film "Bad Boys."
when something starts to exist or becomes available
The appearance of new products on the market has increased competition.
The appearance of the car has facilitated our lives.
the feeling that makes you want to eat
All that walking has given me an appetite.
I won't have any chocolate, thanks - it'll spoil my appetite.
The tasteless food spoiled our appetite.
when you want something very much
He has a real appetite for adventure.
It does not occur to him that Jack has degenerated into blood-lust and is driven by hatred and an appetite for power.
to clap your hands to show that you have enjoyed a performance, talk, etc.
The audience applauded loudly.
Secondly, owing to a sudden shower, there was a short break during the dance display and the horse show, but eventually, we finished the display and the show successfully and people applauded.
to approve of or admire something
Most people will surely applaud the decision.
I admire and applaud Stevens' integrity and dignity.
when people make a noise by clapping their hands to show they have enjoyed or approve of something
There was loud applause at the end of her speech.
Still the audience was very pleased, because they gave massive applause at the end.
when people clap
The crowd gave him a huge round of applause.
It was unbelievable, there was a round of applause and some people couldn't help crying.
a hard, round fruit that has a green or red skin and is white inside
to peel an apple
apple pie/sauce
an apple tree
The place is in North Iraq. I like this place, because it has very nice weather, and there is nice fruit: dates, grapes, peaches, and apples.
a piece of electrical equipment with a particular purpose in the home
fridges, radios, and other electrical appliances
The fair was well organized and structured into specific sections from clothing and sportswear to household appliances and electronic goods.
an official request for something, usually in writing
a letter of application
I've sent off applications for four different jobs.
Have you filled in the application form for your passport yet?
After having filled in the application form, the master pilot took us on a short trip around the hangars showing the planes used for training.
a piece of computer software designed for a particular purpose
Typical examples of software applications are spreadsheets, media players and database applications.
I am an experienced user of the Internet and know all application programs for Windows '95 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, PinPoint etc.).
a way in which something can be used for a particular purpose
This technology has many practical applications.
We have been working on the growing of cells in zero-gravity environments, having in mind its possible application in outer space colonies, such as the International Space Station.
to request something, usually officially, especially by writing or sending in a form
By the time I saw the job advertised it was already too late to apply.
I've applied for a job there.
Please apply in writing to the address below.
I applied for this course and went to my first lesson last week.
to relate to a particular person or situation
That bit of the form is for UK citizens - it doesn't apply to you.
He seems to think that the normal rules of behaviour don't apply to him.
Those were old regulations - they don't apply any more.
The same doesn't apply to a teenager who lives in illness and poverty and whose family and friends constantly mistreat him.
to use something in a particular situation
The same method can be applied to other situations.
Moreover, he can explain how theory is being applied in the field.
to work hard
If he doesn't apply himself, he'll never pass his exams.
Many previously unknown professions emerged, and people started to apply themselves to their jobs much more than before; the pursuit of money was initiated.
to officially choose someone for a job
He was appointed as company director last year.
Moreover, with the liberation of Greece, he was appointed as the First Governor of the new state.
a time you have arranged to meet someone or go somewhere
a dental/doctor's appointment
I'd like to make an appointment with Doctor Evans, please.
I cancelled the appointment.
I've got an appointment to see Ms Edwards at two o'clock.
That's the second appointment he's missed.
I have an appointment with my solicitor at 5.00.
when you officially choose someone for an important job, or the job itself
the appointment of three new teachers
We would like to announce the appointment of Julia Lewis as head of sales.
to understand how good something or someone is and be able to enjoy them
There's no point buying him expensive wines - he doesn't appreciate them.
I don't think you appreciate how much time I spent preparing this meal.
It's like wine, it's impossible to drink a glass of wine quickly, you can't appreciate it.
used when you are politely requesting something
I would appreciate it if you could let me know in advance whether or not you will be coming.
I would really appreciate a positive answer from your side.
used when you are thanking someone or showing that you are grateful
Thanks for all the help you gave us last weekend. We really appreciate it.
I appreciate your making the effort to come.
Thanks for your congratulations. I really appreciate it.
to understand something about a situation, especially that it is complicated or difficult
I appreciate that it is a difficult decision for you to make.
Given the size of the house and the rather delicate nature of some of the furniture pieces, I appreciate that it may have been somewhat of a challenge.
when you understand how good something or someone is and are able to enjoy them
You've done so much to help us so, to show our appreciation, we've bought you a little gift.
The crowd cheered in appreciation.
Children rarely show any appreciation of/for what their parents do for them.
My appreciation of art has increased as I've got older.
To show our appreciation, we would also like to invite you to dinner afterwards at the Red Baron.
to come close in distance or time
Ladies and gentlemen, we are now approaching Paddington Station.
Christmas is fast approaching.
The holidays are approaching.
to deal with something
I'm not sure how to approach the problem.
This is the right way to approach the issue.
a way of doing something
In Sweden they have a different approach to the problem.
I thought we'd adopt/take a new approach.
This will show the contrast in teaching methods, different approaches to students and the techniques used by different teachers.
when something or someone gets nearer in distance or time
The siren signalled the approach of an ambulance.
Please fasten your seat belts, the plane is now making its final approach (in)to Heathrow Airport.
suitable or right for a particular situation or occasion
Is this film appropriate for small children?
I didn't think his comments were very appropriate at the time.
I will explain why I am an appropriate person for this job.
in a way that is appropriate
She didn't think we were appropriately dressed for a wedding.
I enjoyed reading it and I think it appropriately describes the atmosphere of that lovely town.
when you have a positive opinion of someone or something
He showed his approval by smiling broadly.
Sam always tried hard to win his father's approval.
Does the wine meet with your approval?
I hope this meets with your approval and I am looking forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.
official permission
The project has now received approval from the government.
The teacher gave the student a nod of approval.
Besides the questionable approval given by governmental authorities, the situation might be useful to us.
to allow or officially agree to something
The council has approved plans for a new shopping centre.
The court approved the sale of the property.
"Congratulations, your scholarship to the UK is approved."
to think that something is good or right
She doesn't approve of my friends.
He doesn't approve of smoking.
The head of department seems to approve of what I am doing.
Woods didn't approve of the government's attitude to them.
not completely accurate but close
The train's approximate time of arrival is 10.30.
Can you give me an approximate idea of the numbers involved?
The approximate figure is about 5000 people.
close to a particular number or time although not exactly that number or time
The job will take approximately two weeks, and cost around £1000.
The college has approximately 700 students.
From the airport of Larnaka you need approximately forty-five minutes by taxi, to Agia Napa.
the fourth month of the year, after March and before May
20(th) April/April 20(th)
The meeting is on the fourth of April/April the fourth.
I did a course in London last April.
I'm doing a course in London next April.
We came back in April.
The art class will be on 21st April.
not based on a system or principles and often seeming unfair
an arbitrary decision
As the conflict progresses, the influence of civilisation and democratic conduct fades away, being replaced and forced out by Jack's savagery and absolute and arbitrary rule.
a curved structure that usually supports something, for example a bridge or wall
Passing through the arch, you enter an open courtyard.
She could have taken a short cut, but she chose this long and rather uncomfortable way deliberately, as it was leading past the old arch where a strange man used to play a violin.
to be a curved shape or make something become a curved shape
The bridge arched over the river.
Suddenly a flash arched across the sky, followed by an echoing rumble.
someone who studies ancient cultures by looking for and examining their buildings, tools, and other objects
Archaeologists believe the remains date back to the 5th century.
It includes articles from prominent journalists, scientists, archaeologists and other experts on Greek civilisation.
the study of ancient cultures by looking for and examining their buildings, tools, and other objects
He did archaeology at university.
But I have to admit that there could be more presentations to cover areas like archaeology, language, etc.
someone whose job is to design buildings
He trained as an architect in Edinburgh and then moved to London to find work.
He knew that I wanted to be an architect.
the design and style of buildings
Roman architecture
modern architecture
There are beautiful places like Merarejonban, which is outstanding in its architecture.
the skill of designing buildings
He studied architecture.
I want to study architecture in the U.K. but English is a problem, so I need spend a lot of time learning it.
a region of a country or city
All areas of the country will have some rain tonight.
Houses in the London area are very expensive.
This is a very poor area.
It's a tourist area.
a part of a building or piece of land used for a particular purpose
a play/picnic area
I'm staying in a very big hotel; it has a swimming pool, a golf area, gardens, and also a children's area.
a part of a subject or activity
Marketing is Paul's area.
Software is not really my area of expertise.
I am a 30-year-old Swedish male with a diploma in gardening. I have 6 years experience of the area since I have been employed by a Swedish fruit supplier.
to speak angrily to someone, telling them that you disagree with them
My parents are always arguing.
Kids, will you stop arguing with each other?
They were arguing over/about which film to go and see.
Peter told her his parents had argued and he came with his mother to London.
to give reasons to support or oppose an idea, action, etc.
The minister argued for/in favour of making cuts in military spending.
She argued against tax cuts.
The minister argued that cuts in military spending were needed.
It is often argued that family life is not important.
an angry discussion with someone in which you both disagree
The children had an argument about/over what game to play.
He got into an argument with a man in the pub last night.
I wrote a song last week. It's about my boyfriend and an argument he had with his parents about our relationship.
a reason or reasons why you support or oppose an idea, action, etc.
There are many arguments for and against nuclear energy.
I don't think that's a very strong/powerful argument.
An argument in favour of this statement is that shopping is very tiring.
very dry and without enough rain for plants
an arid region/climate
It's like being taken from our 'arid desert' routine to a truly refreshing and invigorating oasis.
If a problem arises, it starts to happen.
The whole problem arose from a lack of communication.
Although the place was very good, a number of problems arose during our visit.
the long part at each side of the human body, ending in a hand
My arms ache from carrying this bag.
She put/threw her arms around me, and hugged me to her.
He took/held her in his arms.
I've a Tennis racket that I bought a year ago. I want to sell it because I've broken my arm.
the part of a chair where your arm rests
The chair didn't have any arms.
It appears to me that the leather covering the left arm of the sofa has been pierced with some sharp object.
with your arm gently supporting or being supported by someone else's arm
They walked through the park, arm in arm.
We often walked around the playground arm in arm.
to not allow someone to become too friendly with you
I always had the feeling she was keeping me at arm's length.
At first she keeps them at arm's length, but Mr Emerson is direct and advises Lucy to behave in a more natural way instead of doing what some old ladies say.
a comfortable chair with sides that support your arms
She sat in an armchair by the fire, reading a newspaper.
I want to sell my armchair and my television.
using or carrying weapons
an armed robbery
armed conflict
armed guards/police
I could clearly understand that the two armed men would catch us within a few minutes.
carrying or knowing something that will be useful
I like to go to a meeting armed with the relevant facts.
We set off armed with all our cameras, lenses, travelling gadgets and equipment.
a particular country's fighting force
When did you join the army?
He has decided on a career in the army.
The army was/were called out to enforce the curfew.
I work in the army and I need to know how and what I should do if I am in a war.
a group of people that is organized to do the same job
an army of cleaners/helpers
There, you are surrounded by an army of waiters: one for the home-baked bread, one for the water, one for the wine, one for the food.
to surround or be on all sides of something, or in a circular movement
We sat around the table.
He put his arm around her.
The moon goes around the Earth.
I walked around the building.
You can go around the lake by train.
to or in different parts of a place
I spent a year travelling around Australia.
I used to live around here.
After that, we will walk around the shopping mall.
about or approximately
around two months ago
around four o'clock
She earns around forty thousand a year.
I think I'll arrive around 6.00 p.m.
to or in different parts of a place
I'm going to fly to Peru and travel around for six weeks.
She went into town and spent two hours just walking around.
Come and visit, I'll show you around.
in a circle or with circular movement
She passed a plate of biscuits around.
This switch makes the wheels go around.
Hello, everybody. Please gather around.
to the opposite direction
Jonny turned around and looked at her.
The pianist spun around on the stool and faced his audience.
As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name. I turned around.
If someone is around, they are present in a place.
Will you be around next week?
Roger isn't around at the moment - can I help instead?
It was dark and not a soul was around.
present or available
Mobile phones have been around for years now.
Major sporting competitions have been around for the better part of 2500 years, ever since the original Olympic Games were held in ancient Greece.
to make someone have a particular feeling or reaction
It's a subject which has aroused a lot of interest.
There was something about her that had aroused my interest.
to make the necessary plans and preparations for something to happen
The meeting has been arranged for Wednesday.
They arranged to have dinner the following month.
I've already arranged with him where to meet.
She's arranged for her son to have swimming lessons.
I'd arranged that they should arrive at the same time.
Dear Friends, It's a fantastic idea to come to my country in the holidays; we could arrange to meet somewhere.
to put objects in a particular order or position
She arranged her birthday cards along the shelf.
Who arranged these flowers so beautifully?
His books are neatly arranged in alphabetical order.
Before the pop concert started, I arranged the seats and carried some musical instruments.
plans for how something will happen
They'd made all the arrangements for the party.
Arrangements were made to move the prisoners to another jail.
What are your current childcare arrangements?
I'll make all the arrangements.
an agreement between two people or groups
We had an arrangement that he would clean the house and I would cook.
I'm sure we can come to an arrangement.
You can only withdraw money from this account by (prior) arrangement with the bank.
I didn't know if you would be in the house or not so you need to contact him for a new arrangement on this telephone number 333-30.30.
a group of objects in a particular order or position
a flower arrangement
Dear Mrs. Anderson, I have learned from a friend that your club gives advanced courses in flower arrangement.
If the police arrest someone, they take them away to ask them about a crime which they might have committed.
She was arrested for drinking and driving.
He was arrested when customs officers found drugs in his bag.
To my horror, they arrested me.
when the police take someone away to ask them about a crime which they might have committed
Police made twenty arrests at yesterday's demonstration.
She was stopped outside the shop and placed/put under arrest.
When I came around, Mr Smith was under arrest and fortunately, things finished well for me.
when someone or something arrives somewhere
Hundreds gathered to await the boxer's arrival at the airport.
On arrival at the police station, they were taken to an interview room.
We regret the late arrival of Flight 237.
Can you confirm your arrival time next week?
a new thing or person that has arrived
Two teachers were there to greet the new arrivals.
Secondly, a barbecue would be a good thing to do on the 1st of September, to welcome the new arrivals.
when something new is discovered or created or becomes available
The town grew rapidly with the arrival of the railway.
With the arrival of capitalism, the mass-production of garments inherent to this system has raised the issue of whether what people wear reflects their personality.
to reach a place, especially at the end of a journey
What time does your train arrive?
It was dark by the time we arrived at the station.
We arrived in Prague later that day.
I ordered some DVDs over a month ago, but they still haven't arrived.
I'm arriving at four o'clock.
to find an answer to a problem or make a decision after a lot of discussion
We didn't arrive at any firm conclusions.
This is something very important which should be discussed... we may arrive at a conclusion.
believing that you are better or more important than other people
I found him arrogant and rude.
Chubby, arrogant and filthy were the words that described him best. Every time they met, a bitter feeling of hatred bloomed in her throat.
a symbol used on a sign, on a computer, etc. to show direction
I followed the arrows to the car park.
I followed its arrow and believe it or not I found mum!
a weapon that is like a long thin stick with a sharp point at one end and often feathers at the other, shot from a bow
Robin Hood asked to be buried where his arrow landed.
The museum has many old axes, crossbows, bows and arrows.
the making or study of paintings, drawings, etc. or the objects created
modern art
an art exhibition/gallery
Art and English were my best subjects at school.
The new art class after school is on Wednesday.
creative areas including painting, drama, dance, music, etc.
fine/decorative arts
She's doing a course in the performing arts.
You can enjoy both traditional and contemporary performing arts in Osaka.
subjects, such as history, languages and philosophy, that are not scientific subjects
an arts subject
the Arts Faculty
an arts graduate/degree
The same percentage of graduates from arts and social science and science areas became unemployed after finishing university.
a skill in a particular activity
the art of conversation
In my opinion, spoken English is the best course at the school and it really gives one good practice in the art of negotiation.
a piece of writing on a particular subject in a newspaper or magazine
There was an interesting article on climate change in the paper yesterday.
I read an article about this zoo in the newspaper.
in grammar, used to mean the words 'a', 'an' and 'the'
There's a definite article missing before the noun.
not natural, but made by people
an artificial flower/lake
artificial flavourings
First, most shopping centres use artificial illumination, which is bad for our health.
not sincere
Their cheerfulness seemed rather strained and artificial.
Miss Bartlett probably comes from the poorer part of the family and that is why she always tries to show her unselfishness to Lucy but this is done in a very artificial and annoying way.
the use of computer technology to do jobs that previously needed human intelligence
This is a clearly written, but extremely superficial, introduction to the field of artificial intelligence (AI).
True artificial intelligence, one of the most terrifying dreams of man, is yet to be discovered, but we must handle it with great care if we don't want to suffer the consequences of a world in which machines start to think for us, this making our existence completely pointless.
in an artificial way
Most mushrooms sold in supermarkets have been grown artificially in manure.
Zoos are part of nature, despite the fact that they are created artificially.
someone who paints, draws or makes sculptures
Monet is one of my favourite artists.
You have to bring a pencil and paintings to copy by famous artists like Goya.
showing skill and imagination in creating things, especially in painting, drawing, etc.
Both children are very artistic.
artistic talent
If the museum is a place were they can say how they feel, or express it in an abstract or artistic way, they will start to like it.
relating to any form of art, including painting, literature, theatre, music, etc.
the artistic director of the theatre
a work of artistic merit
That would be perfect to improve the artistic and cultural life of Turin.
used to talk about the job someone has
She works as a waitress.
He works in a school as a teacher.
also
Are you going to invite Steve as well?
Dylma goes to school every day and works as well.
in addition to
There are soft drinks as well as coffee and tea.
They have lived in the United States as well as Britain.
I like pop as well as country music.
having a particular use
We used the box as a table.
It is very useful because you can use it as a camera.
used to compare two things, people, amounts, etc.
She'll soon be as tall as her mother.
I can't run as fast as you.
The food here isn't as good as it used to be.
She earns three times as much as I do.
The air isn't as good as in the countryside because of the pollution.
as much/quickly/soon, etc. as something can happen or be done
Please sit down as quickly as possible.
I'll go as soon as possible.
I need it as soon as possible.
in the way that happens most of the time
As usual, James was the last to arrive.
As usual, I'll travel by plane.
being or appearing to be a particular thing
He was dressed as a pirate.
As a young man, he was very lonely.
She was there, standing in front of me, still dressed as a bride, with tears in her eyes.
at the same time or a very short time after
As soon as I saw her, I knew there was something wrong.
As soon as the rain stopped, I called my friend and we all continued walking in the park, and we all enjoyed ourselves.
used to say that something must happen before something else can happen
I can come as long as I can leave by 4.00.
Bring your friends by all means - just as long as I know how many are coming.
The colours I wear are not important, as long as I don't wear any pink clothes. I really dislike that colour.
used at the beginning of a sentence to introduce a slightly different subject, but one that is connected in some way
I was pleased about the news. As for Emily, well, who cares what she thinks?
As for Chris, he agreed with me to do fifty kilometres on Saturday and stay at the Lakeside Inn.
because of something
Unemployment has risen as a result of the credit crunch.
On more than one occasion I missed the new releases or arrived late, as a result of trusting the cinema's website.
when considered as a group and not in parts
The population as a whole is getting healthier.
To sum up, I can say that the greatest ever invention is the invention of computers, that has affected both individuals and society as a whole.
used to give more information, or to correct something that has been said
John plays golf professionally. As a matter of fact, he has just won a big competition.
"So you're from Cambridge?" "No, as a matter of fact, I'm from Bristol."
I think it would be better to choose somewhere outdoors. As a matter of fact, I prefer the open air and the sunlight!
used to introduce a list or description
The main reasons are as follows.
The summary of relevant points and recommendations are as follows: 1. Both of them are located in the centre of town.
used to describe how a situation seems to be
It looks as if it might rain.
It was as though we had known each other for years.
Everything was so familiar, as though he had never left the place.
used to show what someone thinks about something
As far as I'm concerned, feng shui is a load of rubbish.
As far as our customers are concerned, price is the main consideration.
As far as Laura was concerned, he was the most disgusting man in the world.
used to tell someone what you are talking about
As far as money is concerned, we're doing very well.
First of all, I think the Majestic Hotel would be the right location, but I have doubts as far as the costs are concerned.
used to say that you think something is true, but cannot be sure
As far as I know, he's never been in trouble with the police.
As far as I know, accommodation at Camp California is in tents or log cabins.
something that you say in order to introduce a surprising fact
As it happens, her birthday is the day after mine.
As it happens, I am currrently looking for a computer course for myself and I would like to join one of your courses.
used before a number or amount to show that the number or amount is large
As many as 6,000 people may have been infected with the disease.
As many as 90% of them went to the cinema on a regular basis in 1990, with the peak of a 95% attendance rate taking place in 1996.
until and including this time
We haven't needed extra staff as yet, but may do in the future.
No ambulances had as yet managed to get across the river.
I would like to do something about it, but as I can't imagine building anything near my beautiful house (because I'm afraid it would destroy its wonderful harmony), I have no idea as yet how to solve this problem.
used to say that two things are very different
I'm talking about English football, as opposed to European football.
Love is accepting people as they are, being tolerant and giving freedom, as opposed to possessive love, which is what is often - if not always - understood by love.
to do something that you feel is the right thing to do, although other people might disapprove
You must spend the money as you see fit.
Do as you think fit!
used to show that the name of something tells you something about it
The Long Room, as its name implies, runs the entire length of the house.
Sour Sweet, as the name implies, is originally a Chinese restaurant.
as something is now, without changes in it
The law as it stands is very unclear.
In my opinion, this debate is rooted in a deeper questioning of society's foundations: some people see society as it stands today as inherently flawed, an amorphous group of people who follow and worship anyone that gives them pleasure.
because
As it was getting late, I decided to book into a hotel.
You can go first as you're the oldest.
I need it as I have to return it to the library.
while or during the time that
I saw him as I was coming into the building.
He gets more attractive as he gets older.
After spending two hours searching for her I started to feel desperate, but just as I was ready to give up, the sky got normal again and I found myself at my own wedding and she was my wife!
in the same way
He got divorced, (just) as his parents had done years before.
This year, as in previous years, tickets sold very quickly.
As with his earlier movies, the special effects in his latest film are brilliant.
As we expected, we are going to see a movie tonight.
feeling guilty or embarrassed about something you have done
You've got nothing to be ashamed of.
She ought to be ashamed of herself - talking to her mother like that!
He was ashamed to admit to his mistake.
I was ashamed that I'd made so little effort.
I felt so ashamed of myself for making such a fuss.
He felt very ashamed and didn't know what to do.
to be angry and disappointed with a family member or friend because they have behaved badly
My brother was so rude to Jane - I was ashamed of him.
I was very ashamed of them. They came from my own country.
on or to one side
Stand aside, please, and let these people pass.
He pulled the curtain aside.
I gave her a plate of food but she pushed it aside.
She took me aside to tell me the news.
I saw an old man slowly pull it aside and peep out, looking at the street with his eyes wide open.
If you put or set something aside, you do not use it now, but keep it to use later.
We've put some money aside for the holiday.
I had put some money aside for a month, thinking about the discount.
except for
This document needs finishing, but aside from that I think everything is done.
Secondly, it is unfair to say the other performers were second-rate aside from the 'Torrents', since they all sang and played very well.
to say a question to someone which you want them to answer
She asked me a question.
Can I ask you something?
She asked me about my parents.
I asked why the plane was so late.
"Why is Sara crying?" he asked.
You asked me about a day at college.
to invite someone to do something
I've asked David to the party.
I've asked David to come to the party.
"Are you going to Muriel's party?" "No, I haven't been asked."
Ian's asked us over for dinner next Friday.
Ian's asked us round to/for dinner next Friday.
In fact they've asked us to stay for the whole weekend.
Thank you for asking me to your wedding.
to say something to someone because you want them to do something
They've asked me to look after their dog while they're away.
I want to apologize for not going to your class tomorrow, it's not that I don't want to go but my mother asked me to take care of my sister because she is sick and my parents have to work.
to say something to someone because you want them to give you something
He's asked for a bike for his birthday.
He's asked us for a new bike.
I can ask my parents for a stereo for Christmas, but I'm not sure if they will agree or not.
to say something to someone because you want to know if you can do something
Bruce asked if he could stay with us for a few days.
I am going to travel with my girlfriend Anna, so I am writing you this email to ask if you can lend me your bicycle for a week.
said when someone asks you about an experience that was very bad
"How was the meeting?" "Don't ask!"
Don't ask me how the concert was!
used to tell someone that you do not know the answer to a question and that you are surprised they have asked you
"So why would she leave such a good job?" "Don't ask me!"
said when giving your opinion on something
If you ask me, he doesn't really care about his friends.
If you ask me, the things that matter in a job are the people you work with and feeling happy about the work you are doing.
to think about something carefully
You've got to ask yourself whether it's what you really want.
You have to ask yourself what life is worth in these situations.
sleeping or not awake
The children are asleep.
I fell asleep as soon as my head hit the pillow.
I'm surprised to see you awake - ten minutes ago you were fast/sound asleep.
I've only just got up and I'm still half asleep.
I fell asleep, and when I woke up, I realised that I had lost it.
completely asleep
I looked into her room but she was still fast asleep.
Karen's grandson walks into the room to find her fast asleep on her favourite chair.
one part of a situation, problem, subject, etc.
Which aspects of the job do you most enjoy?
That's the most worrying aspect of the situation.
Every aspect of our daily life is influenced by technology.
something that you hope to achieve
I've never had any political aspirations.
A career should reflect a person's beliefs and aspirations, not their bank account.
to hope to achieve something
He has never aspired to a position of power.
The younger generation often see some of these people as role-models and aspire to a similar career and easy fame, but although I can understand their interest, I do not see this as a positive thing.
a common drug used to reduce pain and fever
I took a couple of aspirin.
I took an aspirin quickly.
someone who is trying to become a successful actor/politician/writer, etc.
If you are an aspiring artist, you will enjoy the special painting and sketching week they hold three times a year.
Mary Peterson was a young woman who was an aspiring journalist.
an attack
an assault on a police officer
sexual assault
Rapes, assaults, murders, burglaries, and robberies have been so frequent that a lot of technological progress has been made in order to prevent these from happening.
to attack someone violently
He was assaulted by a youth who cannot be named.
I remember that once my parents prevented three hooligans from assaulting a girl.
to join other people somewhere to make a group, or to bring people together into a group
They assembled in the meeting room after lunch.
Soon a rescue team was assembled by experienced skiers and climbers, and started combing the mountain looking for the missing snowboarder.
to build something by joining parts together
Their furniture is easy to assemble.
As well as relaxing while assembling model aircraft or boats and meeting new friends, the course-takers could learn a fact or two about history as well.
a group of people, such as a government, who meet to make decisions, laws, etc.
the national assembly
the United Nations General Assembly
I hope that it won't be necessary to talk to our local Assembly representative, because that would only make this process longer.
when you build something by joining parts together
The frame needs to be strong enough to support the engine assembly.
Major factories the world over incorporate automated robots into their assembly lines.
to say that something is certainly true
He asserts that she stole money from him.
Our department have already consulted the local Marketing Training Centre, which asserted that these employees are eligible to take the course.
to behave or speak in a strong, confident way
She has to learn to assert herself.
Such an attitude may also be the result of little pangs of homesickness or of our need to assert ourselves, to feel superior in a foreign country.
to do something to show other people that you have power
She soon asserted her authority as leader.
He can assert his authority over all the boys who are there.
behaving or speaking in a strong, confident way
You need to be much more assertive.
I want to learn how to be more assertive, find emotional independence, fulfil my dreams, be more tolerant, less sarcastic and, most importantly, be given the precious gift of patience.
to make a judgement about the quality, size or value, etc. of something
Examinations are a way of assessing a student's ability.
They assessed the cost of the flood damage at £1500.
We need to assess whether the project is worth doing.
The aim of this report is to compare and assess the architecture, food and service of two restaurants in my area.
when you make a judgement about the quality, size or value, etc. of something
That's a fair assessment of the situation.
Secondly, I was a little bit upset about your assessment of the other performers because they showed us their great musical talents.
a person, skill or quality which is useful or helps you to succeed
He'll be a great asset to the team.
I am sure that you will be more than satisfied with him and that he is going to be an asset to your hotel.
something which a person or company owns which has a value
The company has $70 billion in assets.
Somehow, all his assets were frozen by the bank and the family became poor overnight.
to give someone a particular job or responsibility
UN forces were assigned the task of rebuilding the hospital.
The case has been assigned to our most senior officer.
Some of the work they were assigned was quite boring for them.
a piece of work given to someone, especially as part of their studies or job
a freelance/photo assignment
The assignment is due on Friday.
As your know, I must do the group assignment for Project Management.
to help
The army arrived to assist in the search.
You will be expected to assist the editor with the selection of illustrations for the book.
However, I used to assist my brother, who is a photographer.
help
Can I be of any assistance, madam?
Teachers can't give pupils any assistance in exams.
Thank you for your assistance.
someone who helps customers in a shop
The sales assistant persuaded me to buy them.
I want to do this course because it can help me to get a job as a shop assistant.
someone whose job is to help a person who has a more important job
an administrative assistant
an assistant editor/manager
He went to take the bag from his assistant.
to be related to something or caused by something
There are many risks associated with smoking.
Undoubtedly there are both positive and negative points associated with this topic.
to connect someone or something in your mind with someone or something else
Most people associate this brand with good quality.
Nowadays we tend to associate computer games or television with young people.
an organization of people with the same interests or with a particular purpose
The Football Association
I am a member of the local Kung-Fu Association.
working together with
The event was organized in association with the Sports Council.
This service, which will be provided in association with Foster Loft, will be available at the end of 2005.
a connection or relationship between two things or people
There is no association between the two groups.
The second example is people who wear clothes such as black leather suits and black or purple lip-stick, showing their association with a particular genre of music.
to think that something is true, without question or proof
I assumed (that) you knew each other because you went to the same school.
I invited her just assuming she would want to come.
The police assumed he was lying so they put him in jail.
to take a position of control/power/responsibility, etc.
He has assumed the role of spokesman for the group.
She got involved in the marketing business there and assumed responsibility very soon - she became the marketing director for continental Europe.
something that you think is true without having any proof
People tend to make assumptions about you when you have a disability.
These calculations are based on the assumption that prices will continue to rise.
But if this assumption is right, and if you consider how much fashion has changed over the last 60 years, does this mean that we are so very different from our grandparents?
a promise
He gave us an assurance that it would not happen again.
Again, may I give my assurances that the above two requests for equipment acquisition would be money well spent for our company.
confidence
He spoke with calm assurance.
'I urge you to stay calm and wait for the rescue team,' said Mark with assurance.
to tell someone confidently that something is true, especially so that they do not worry
She assured him (that) the car would be ready the next day.
If you decide to live in the capital, I can assure you there are plenty of sports facilities here, such as tennis courts, basketball courts, football fields, swimming centres and many more.
to make something certain to happen
This loan should assure the company's future.
The PT is guaranteed to assure higher test results or your money back!
very surprised
I was astonished to see Miriam there.
They looked astonished when I announced I was pregnant.
The doctors were astonished at the speed of her recovery.
She was astonished when she saw what was in front of her.
very surprising
Her first novel enjoyed an astonishing level of success.
It's astonishing to think that only a few years ago Communism dominated eastern Europe.
The colour of the sea was astonishing and the mountains were so magical!
very great surprise
To my astonishment, she started laughing.
She gasped in astonishment.
To our astonishment, we were in front of a small house which seemed to have been built centuries ago.
the scientific study of stars and planets
This is the biggest step forward in astronomy since Galileo's first telescope over four hundred years ago.
Her father was famous for his vast knowledge of astronomy and books he wrote on this subject.
used to show the place or position of something
She's at home/work.
We met at the station.
We'll meet you at the entrance.
She's sitting at the table in the corner.
She was standing at the top of the stairs.
There's someone at the door.
We spent the afternoon at a football match.
I met her at sewing classes.
used to show the time something happens
There's a meeting at 2.30 this afternoon.
Are you free at lunchtime?
In theory, women can still have children at the age of 50.
I'm busy at the moment - can you call back later?
At no point did the company do anything illegal.
I go to work at 7.30.
towards or in the direction of
She smiled at me.
They waved at us as we drove by.
"Look at me! Look at me!" called the little girl.
I like walking around these lakes and looking at ducks and swans.
the @ symbol, used in email addresses to separate the name of a person, department, etc. from the name of the company
"What's your email address?" "It's martin at mozilla dot org."
used to show the cause of something, especially a feeling
We were surprised at the news.
I was quite excited at the prospect.
Why does no one ever laugh at my jokes?
I was very surprised at my English teacher, as she is an old lady and must be at least seventy years old.
as much as, or more than, a number, amount, distance, etc.
It will cost at least £500.
You'll have to wait at least an hour.
I can write at least once a week.
used after an adjective to show a person's ability to do something
I'm not very good at skiing.
He's very talented at maths.
She is really good at tennis.
used for emphasis in questions or negative statements, to mean in any way or of any type
Can I help at all?
He hasn't changed at all.
The sun was shining and there were no clouds at all, so we could see the light blue sky.
at the highest level of achievement or quality
The article is an example of journalism at its best.
I enjoyed this trip because we got to stay in the countryside and see nature at its very best.
finally
At last, I've found a pair of jeans that actually fit.
At last, all of us agreed on "Cinema Farhang".
even if nothing else happens or is true
If you can't manage to clean the whole house, at least make sure the kitchen is clean.
We could go shopping or at least go and have an ice-cream somewhere.
something that you say when you are telling someone about an advantage in a bad situation
It's a small house but at least there's a garden.
It is not impressive but at least it has some things that I like.
at the beginning of a situation or period of time
At first I thought she was unfriendly, but actually she's just shy.
At first, when I arrived I was very nervous because I didn't know anyone, but then a girl started talking to me and I felt better.
If two things happen at the same time, they happen together.
We arrived at the same time.
The kind of clothes I most like are casual but fashionable at the same time.
immediately
I knew at once that I'd like it here.
She called for an ambulance which came at once.
now
At present she's working abroad.
Firstly, I have to tell you that at present, I am studying journalism and I have a good knowledge of computers.
used to reduce the effect of a statement
I've met the President - at least, he shook my hand once.
But after years of developing my slalom, I wanted to learn something new, so, I started Hot-Dogging. Hot-Dog is great fun. At least, people say so.
used to show a price, temperature, rate, speed, etc.
He was driving at 120 mph when the police spotted him.
If something must be done at all costs, it is very important that it is done.
We have to succeed at all costs.
One thing was sure: he was convinced he had to save Anne's life at all costs.
available for you to use at any time
We will have a car at our disposal for the whole trip.
But on Wednesday morning I'm at your disposal.
responsible for something bad that has happened
I was at fault and I would like to apologize.
I really felt at fault.
being in a situation where something bad is likely to happen
All houses within 100 metres of the seas are at risk of flooding.
Releasing these prisoners puts the public at risk.
Lives are at risk!
not horizontal or vertical, but sloping
He wore his hat at an angle.
The boat settled into the mud at a 35 degree angle.
After purchasing the G5X-1 food processor from your shop last month I discovered, upon connecting it to the mains socket and switching it on, that I needed to tilt the unit at an angle for it to work.
If you do one thing at the expense of another, doing the first thing harms the second thing.
He spent a lot of time at work, at the expense of his marriage.
Unfortunately one is usually done at the expense of the other.
If you accept something at face value because of the way it first looks or seems, you do so without thinking carefully about it.
You can't just accept everything you read in the newspapers at face value.
These results should not be taken at face value - careful analysis is required to assess their full implications.
People are assessed at face value by the type of cars they drive.
If you see something at a glance, you see it very quickly or immediately.
He could tell at a glance that something was wrong.
You could tell at a glance that Peter was a loner.
near in time or space
Teachers are always close at hand to give help to any child who needs it.
I haven't had any lectures in English, but now and then there are lectures in English at the University so you need to understand the spoken language with no dictionary at hand.
not less than, and probably much more than
At the very least, you should apologize.
We should earn £500 at the very least.
Thus, I trust you will agree that at the very least I deserve a letter of explanation from you and a substantial refund of my money.
only a short time before something happens
I had to give a speech at very short notice.
The fact that the speech by the famous actor was cancelled at short notice was disappointing.
at the same time
They all started talking at once.
The study centre is really small and all the students talk at once.
suddenly
All at once he stood up and walked out of the room.
All at once, everything started to work again.
chosen by chance
Winners will be chosen at random.
The rooms suggested to be filmed have not been chosen at random.
sometimes
At times, I wish I didn't have to go to school.
STUDYING METHODS All teachers at the college are highly-skilled professionals and can be very demanding at times, but this is in your best interests.
used to show that the most positive way of considering something is still not good
At best, only 50 per cent of babies born at 24 weeks will survive.
Then, due to the social standards, the old find themselves being abandoned and helpless. At best, such people are hospitalized.
used to show that something is not good when it is the best it can be
He's not exactly patient at the best of times.
They knew that even at the best of times he looked unpleasant but now he was of a completely different appearance.
having problems that other people do not have
Being shy puts him at a disadvantage.
There would otherwise be no option for such children who would then be at a disadvantage and possibly engage in destructive behaviour.
to not agree with someone or something
His remark was at odds with our report.
Young people are inexperienced as far as the world is concerned and thus they are frequently at odds with their family.
If you tell someone to do something by a particular time at the latest, you mean they must do it before that time.
She said to be there by 8 o'clock at the latest.
If you talk about something at length, you talk for a long time.
We discussed both topics at length.
Since we have already arranged for your family to come to stay in my home and discussed the arrangements at length and in detail, I will no longer bother you with terms of payment and other information that, judging by your letter, seems to be quite irrelevant.
to be allowed to do something
I'm not at liberty to discuss the matter at present.
On the one hand the child is at liberty to do whatever it pleases to do but on the other hand it was never taught the responsibilities implicitly tied to such actions.
not knowing what to do
I'm at a loss to explain his disappearance.
And now I am competely at a loss what to write next.
not knowing what to say
The question was unexpected and she was temporarily at a loss for words.
If it was James I would be at a loss for words, I didn't know what to tell him.
to not be able to protect yourself from something or someone that you cannot control
Farmers are often at the mercy of the weather.
I couldn't believe I'd been careless enough to let them be at the mercy of Joanna's careless, boisterous friends, and I felt very lonely now, looking for them.
used after a time or date to show that something will not happen before then
Building will not begin until July at the earliest.
in order to make someone look stupid
Stop making jokes at my expense.
But despite his intellectual superiority, Piggy was subject to derision because of his physical outward appearance and the group of boys played jokes at his expense.
If you have something at your fingertips, you can get it and use it very easily.
He had all the information needed at his fingertips.
An Internet connection literally means having the world at your fingertips.
If you suffer at the hands of someone, they hurt you or treat you badly.
She suffered terribly at the hands of her classmates.
She felt abandoned and the loss of Mark's friends at the hands of their old nemesis in the local election had left him with fewer activities for the municipality.
used to say what someone is really like
I'm just a kid at heart.
I also thought that she was brave at heart.
most important in what is being discussed
The point at issue is what is best for the child.
I wouldn't like to fall into the trap of generalizing the matter at issue, but I believe there are two ways of travelling.
If something useful is at a premium, there is not enough of it.
Time is at a premium just before the start of exams.
Honesty and accuracy are very good virtues to strive for, but having friendship and a fair and caring relationship to your friend or partner have to be rated at a premium as well.
If you want something at any price, you will do anything to get it.
She wanted the job at any price.
They wanted to be parents at any price.
used before saying what will happen if a situation continues in the same way
At this rate we're not going to be there till midnight.
used before saying one fact that is certain in a situation that you are generally not certain about
Well, at any rate we need her to be there.
Nevertheless, at any rate, we would like to see a society with a full and strong workforce working towards stronger economic power.
If you do something at your own risk, you are completely responsible for anything bad that might happen because of it.
Customers may leave vehicles here at their own risk.
However, when a young man decides to go on a dangerous expedition, he should do so at his own risk and should not rely on help from anyone.
If something is at stake, it is in a situation where it might be lost or damaged.
We have to act quickly - people's lives are at stake.
The whole human race's future is at stake.
at the young age of 8/17/25, etc
She first appeared on stage at the tender age of 14.
She met my father at the tender age of 14, and she soon knew that this was the man she wanted to stay with for the rest of her life.
used to talk about an occasion in the past without saying exactly which occasion it was
Most of us have made a similar mistake at one time or another.
Haven't we all at one time or another come home from a holiday feeling healthy and strong with a smile on our face thinking, this is what life is about.
a person who is very good at sports or physical exercise, especially one who competes in organized events
He became a professional athlete at the age of 16.
It's amazing what the athletes can do, don't you think?
strong, healthy and good at sports
She looks very athletic.
Furthermore, I am not only very athletic, but also really sociable and outgoing.
the sports which include running, jumping and throwing
an athletics team/club/meeting
You know I love doing sports, especially athletics, so I joined that club.
the feeling which exists in a place or situation
There's a very relaxed atmosphere in our office.
There has been an atmosphere of gloom in the factory since it was announced that it would be closing.
You'll also love the friendly atmosphere here.
the mixture of gases around the Earth
These factories are releasing toxic gases into the atmosphere.
I'm against cars because their CO2 emissions destroy the atmosphere.
the air inside a room or other place
The atmosphere in the room was so stuffy I could hardly breathe.
The atmosphere in the halls also became hot and humid, thus making the whole experience rather unpleasant.
the smallest unit that an element can be divided into
A molecule of carbon dioxide (CO2) has one carbon atom and two oxygen atoms.
Anyway, the manager of that center called me in order to inform me that I would be doing research on nuclear power and atoms.
using the energy that is created when an atom is divided
atomic energy/power
There are lots more dangerous things in the world, like radioactive pollution or atomic bombs.
to join or fix one thing to another
I attached a photo to my application form.
Use this cable to attach the printer to the computer.
I attach my C.V. and I look forward to discussing it with you.
to join a file, such as a document, picture or computer program, to an email
I'm going to send you some information about hotels attached to this mail.
to think that someone or something has importance/value, etc.
You attach too much importance to money.
My father knew exactly when he had to attach importance to feelings or emotions.
to include something as part of something else
There were too many conditions attached to the deal.
Furthermore, the aid provided to these countries is not always innocent and might have strings attached.
joined or connected to another thing
Please fill out the attached form.
As I am an athletic swimmer and a good surfer too, my choice from your attached list is naturally swimming and surfing.
feeling emotionally close to someone or something
The children are very attached to their grandparents.
My only concern is that she is a bit shy and very attached to her family, but I really don't think it would be a problem since she travels a lot and has already spent two months abroad.
an extra piece of equipment that can be added to a machine
This food processor has a special attachment for grinding coffee.
a computer file which is sent together with an email message
I'll email my report to you as an attachment.
I wasn't able to open that attachment.
a feeling of love or strong connection to someone or something
I wasn't aware of any romantic attachments.
Despite this impression she rejected her growing attachment to George in order to fulfil her family's expectations.
to try to hurt or defeat using violence
He was attacked and seriously injured by a gang of youths.
Most wild animals won't attack unless they are provoked.
At least he didn't attack me, and he even lent me his cell phone, he was such a gentle criminal.
to strongly criticize someone or something
She attacked the government's new education policy.
I hope he was indeed misinformed, because attacking a charity organization like this on purpose, is truly an act of a cruel man.
If a disease, chemical, etc. attacks someone or something, it damages them.
The virus attacks the central nervous system.
There is a myriad of diseases that attack the less protected.
a violent act intended to hurt or damage someone or something
a racist attack
a terrorist attack on the capital
The town was once again under attack.
I have planned to see "The attack of the super mutant aliens".
in games such as football, the part of a team which tries to score points
The team has a strong attack, but the defence is weak.
when you say something to strongly criticize someone or something
a scathing attack on the president
Young people often insist on doing everything on their own and consider advice almost an attack on their personal opinion.
to achieve something, especially after a lot of work
She's attained a high level of fitness.
Alternatively, an English speaker from a non-English-speaking country may be of help only if he/she has attained a level higher than yours.
possible to achieve
We must ensure that we do not set ourselves goals that are not attainable.
As electronic media sources have become more affordable and attainable, more people have access to local and international news and events.
to try to do something, especially something difficult
He attempted to escape through a window.
There's no point in even attempting an explanation - he'll never listen.
Carrying a candle, I attempted to phone my neighbour but I looked out of the window and there were no lights.
when you try to do something
This is my second attempt at the exam.
They closed the road in an attempt to reduce traffic in the city.
He made no attempt to be sociable.
I made several attempts to make him change his mind, but I failed.
to go to an event, place, etc.
Over two hundred people attended the funeral.
The meeting is on the fifth and we're hoping everyone will attend.
I attend one of these activities, it was cricket, it was for the whole day.
to go regularly to a place, such as a particular school
Which school does your daughter attend?
I attend Northampton College, which is quite far away from my house.
the number of people who go to an event, meeting, etc.
falling attendance
Also in May, we had the swimming gala, which had a very high attendance from students as there were races for all abilities.
when you go somewhere such as a church, school, etc. regularly
His attendance at school is very poor.
Consequently, I would make attendance more flexible for the members.
present at an event
They have doctors in attendance at every match.
Professional coaches are in attendance and the members can have proper lessons.
when you watch, listen to, or think about something carefully or with interest
Ladies and gentlemen, could I have your attention, please?
Wait a moment and I'll give you my full attention.
After an hour, my attention started to wander.
Thank you for your attention.
to watch, listen to, or think about something carefully
You weren't paying attention to what I was saying.
Larry is a very distracted boy. Everybody says that he should pay attention to what he is doing.
to make someone notice you
I waved at her to get her attention.
The bank is near the school, so the lady was trying to get people's attention while the others robbed the bank.
to make someone notice something or someone
If I could just draw your attention to the second paragraph.
She's always drawing attention to herself.
The purpose of his report is to draw attention to videos in English.
to receive more attention than anyone or anything else
She loves to be the centre of attention.
To sum it up, most celebrities love being the centre of attention and sometimes even ask for it.
how you think or feel about something, and how this makes you behave
He has a very bad attitude to/towards work.
That boy has a real attitude problem.
She has a very positive attitude generally.
The waiters had a very good attitude toward the customers and the food was really wonderful.
to make people come to a place or do a particular thing by being interesting, enjoyable, etc.
The castle attracts more than 300,000 visitors a year.
The circus is attracting huge crowds/audiences.
We need to attract more science graduates to teaching.
Although it was the first time that I came to this new class, it attracted me deeply.
to cause people to pay attention/be interested, etc.
Her ideas have attracted a lot of attention in the scientific community.
When I go out with my friends I actually like wearing clothes that attract people's attention.
to like someone, often sexually, because of the way they look or behave
I was attracted to him straight away.
She was really attracted to him.
something that makes people come to a place or do a particular thing
tourist attractions
The opportunity to travel is one of the main attractions of this job.
At first I only wanted to see the many attractions in Balboa Park.
when you like someone, especially sexually, because of the way they look or behave
physical attraction
Ever since the beginning, since the day when Olivia met the Nawab for the first time, she felt an inexplicable attraction towards him.
beautiful or pleasant to look at
an attractive woman
It's very small but attractive.
interesting or useful
an attractive offer/idea
We want to make the club attractive to a wider range of people.
In fact, all of my work-mates make fun of me when I talk about my collection of stamps. I want to demonstrate to them that it is a very attractive hobby.
to say that something is caused by something else
He attributes his success to hard work.
On the other hand, it might be attributed to the laziness of the people.
a quality or characteristic that someone or something has
Her hair is her best attribute.
What are the attributes of a successful person, then?
an oval, purple vegetable that is white inside
The dish is made with aubergines and cheese.
a sale in which things are sold to the person who offers the most money
The furniture was sold at auction.
And funds could be raised for the changes by holding auctions, runs, parties, raffles, contests etc.
the people who sit and watch a performance at a theatre, cinema, etc.
There were a lot of children in the audience.
The audience was/were clearly delighted with the performance.
All the people in the audience looked at me, I was very excited. The band called me, so I went to the stage and they started to play a very popular song.
the type of people who watch a particular TV show, read a particular book, etc.
This magazine is aimed at a teenage/young audience.
The above-mentioned restaurants are totally different from each other and suit completely different customers. Pasta+, to begin with, is best suited to a younger audience.
when someone does a short performance to try to get a job as an actor, singer, etc.
She's got an audition for the show.
Many untalented people think they can sing and attend the auditions, but others laugh at them.
the eighth month of the year, after July and before September
the 13th of August/August 13(th)
We've got friends coming at the end of August.
They got married last August.
They're getting married next August.
It was one of the hottest Augusts on record.
It starts on 1 June and finishes on 31 August.
the sister of someone's father or mother, or the wife of someone's uncle
I have an aunt in Australia.
Auntie Camille
My uncle, my aunt, my cousin and my friends (Renata, Gustavo, John, Paul) came to the party.
If something is authentic, it is real, true, or what people say it is.
authentic Italian food
I am also nostalgic for authentic Thai culture which has subtly and gradually been replaced by American and European culture.
the writer of a book, article, play, etc.
He is the author of two books on French history.
During the Easter holiday, I read a very good thriller by an Italian author, Andrea Camilleri.
the power to make decisions or to control other people
The United Nations has used its authority to restore peace in the area.
We need to get the support of someone in authority.
They have the authority to examine the company's records.
The problem is that teachers feel they no longer have authority over their pupils.
Their parents have lost almost all their authority.
an official group or government department with power to control particular public services
the local housing authority
The local authority are worried about the fact that many fathers stopped financial support for their ex-wives and dependent children.
someone who has a lot of knowledge about a particular subject
She is an authority on seventeenth-century English literature.
I read the book more than six times and I became an authority on the Roman Empire.
to give official permission for something
His manager had authorized the expenditure.
Most of the rooms are airconditioned and our prices are competitive and authorized by the Greek Tourist Organisation.
to be officially allowed to do something
Only managers are authorized to sign expense forms.
In my capacity as the secretary of the Social Club, I am authorized to express students' dissatisfaction with the facilities of the museum and to urge you to take remedial action towards improving the situation.
An automatic machine works by itself or with little human control.
automatic doors
It has both manual and automatic functions so it has a lot of possibilities.
done as a natural reaction, without thinking
My automatic response was to pull my hand away.
Her gesture was almost automatic.
certain to happen as part of the normal process or system
You get an automatic promotion after two years.
If a machine does something automatically, it does it independently, without human control.
The camera adjusts the shutter speed automatically.
The television will be automatically switched on in time for the breakfast news.
If you do something automatically, you do it without thinking about it.
I automatically put my hand out to catch it.
There was a strange envelope between the others, so automatically, she picked it up and looked at the stamp. The letter came from Australia.
the season of the year between summer and winter, when leaves fall from the trees
We like to travel in the autumn when there are fewer tourists.
Last autumn we went to Germany.
autumn colours/leaves
I'm happy, but this place is a little bit cold because we are in autumn.
when something or someone is available
I checked the availability of flights online and there's plenty of choice.
Therefore, it is essential that you take account of my availability when booking the trip.
If something is available, you can use it or get it.
Do you have any double rooms available this weekend?
Is this dress available in a larger size?
This information is readily/freelyavailable on the Internet.
There's no money available for an office party this year.
I would like to know more details and what facilities are available.
If someone is available, they are not busy and so are able to do something.
Are you available next weekend?
No one from the company was available to comment on the accident.
I am available any time.
a wide road in a town or city, often with trees along it
a tree-lined avenue
The demonstrators just spread litter all over the largest and finest avenue.
a possible way of doing or achieving something
We have exhausted all other avenues of treatment.
An average number is the number you get by adding two or more amounts together and dividing the total by the number of amounts.
an average age/temperature
The weather on this mountain is fantastic, with an average temperature of 17°C.
typical and usual
The average person in the street is a lot better off than they were forty years ago.
a student of average ability
This makes people believe that a lot of the food we eat is fast-food, but it's not true at all, in fact it's a very small part of our average diet.
not particularly good
The meal was pretty average.
I didn't get the high standard of service that you had offered me, and the food was pretty average.
the result you get by adding two or more amounts together and dividing the total by the number of amounts
Prices have risen by an average of 4% over the past year.
On the table was my mark sheet with the average as 90%.
the usual or typical amount
An 8-hour working day is about the average.
The audience figures were lower than average for this sort of film.
The quality of candidates was below/above average.
I expect to spend an average of £20 on a meal in a restaurant.
I don't have much time to watch TV and I only spend an average of two to five hours a week.
usually, or based on an average
Female workers earn, on average, a third less than men.
On average, our pupils are 16 years old and they join actively in all the events we organise.
to stay away from a person, place, situation, etc.
I try to avoid the city centre at the weekend.
Do you think Tim's avoiding me? I haven't seen him all day.
People despise and avoid her because she is ugly.
to prevent something from happening
I left the pub to avoid a fight.
Unnecessary paperwork should be avoided at all costs.
The plane narrowly avoided disaster when one of the engines failed on take-off.
I think that all these problems could have been avoided and that asking for my money back is the best way of forgetting that evening.
to intentionally not do something
She managed to avoid answering my question.
The writer avoided describing personal thoughts.
not sleeping
I find it so difficult to stay awake during history lessons.
I drink a lot of coffee to keep me awake.
I lay awake half the night worrying.
She felt so nervous that it kept her awake at night.
to be completely awake
"Is Oliver awake yet?" "Yes, he's wide awake and running around his bedroom."
Sometimes, when I have put my children to bed, half an hour later an aircraft flies over and my two-year old daughter is wide awake again.
to give money or a prize following an official decision
He was awarded the Nobel Prize for physics.
The university has awarded her a $500 travel grant.
As you will see, I was awarded a grade A.
a prize given to someone for something they have achieved
the Academy Award for Best Director
Both films have received/won several awards.
He became world-famous when he won the Oscar award for best song last year.
knowing that something exists, or having knowledge or experience of a particular thing
Were you aware of the risks at the time?
I wasn't even aware that he was ill.
She was well aware that he was married.
I suddenly became aware of him looking at me.
First of all, we aren't aware of the necessity of learning such things as biology or maths.
when you know about something
Environmental awareness is increasing all the time.
Thirdly, I have a strong awareness of issues which are important to my local community.
in a different place, position or situation
Just go away and leave me alone!
Would you like your burger to eat in or take away?
She's away on holiday until the end of the week.
Keep/Stay away from him.
I have an important exam on your wedding day in another city far away from my city.
at a particular distance from a place
The nearest town was ten miles away.
The office is a half-hour drive away.
We live 5 km away from the coast.
I like it because its remote control could control distances of 1 or 2 meters away.
in or into the usual or a suitable place, especially one that can be closed
Could you put the ice-cream away in the freezer?
My grandparents had £800 hidden away in an old shoe box.
I put away my mobile phone.
at a particular time in the future
My English exam's only a week away and I haven't even started to prepare.
Christmas is just a few months away, and I do not intend to spend it all alone like in the past few years, so I am writing to invite you to my real Christmas party without my parents.
gradually disappearing until mostly or completely gone
All the snow had melted away.
The music faded away as the procession moved slowly up the street.
I always feel so fatigued at the end of the day but after a mile, the aches of the day seem to fade away.
If a sports team is playing away, the game is at the place where the other team usually plays.
They were playing away.
used after a verb to mean 'continuously or repeatedly'
Chris was hammering away in the garden all day.
They chatted away for a while as Malcolm had to wait for the airport taxi.
a feeling of great respect and sometimes fear
I was filled with awe at the sheer size of the building.
As a child growing up, the presence of my grandmother filled me with awe.
to feel great respect for and sometimes fear of someone
As children we were rather in awe of our grandfather.
As I was the eldest of the siblings, they used to respect all my orders and even now, they are a bit in awe of me.
extremely good
Your new haircut is awesome.
My birthday party was awesome!
great or special and causing deep feelings of admiration, respect, or sometimes fear
an awesome achievement
The scenery was truly awesome.
Italy is crowded by groups sheepishly following their guides in an awesome silence and respect.
very bad, of low quality, or unpleasant
The weather was awful.
She's got an awful boss.
It's an awful place.
She'd been ill and she looked awful.
We wanted to go shopping in Oxford Street but everything is too expensive and the weather was awful.
a very large amount
It cost an awful lot of money.
First of all, I want to highlight that we see an awful lot of mobile phones in our daily life.
difficult or causing problems or embarrassment
an awkward customer
Some of the questions were rather awkward.
My car's quite awkward to drive.
They'd chosen an awkward time to call as I'd just got into the bath.
She's put me in quite an awkward position/situation.
There was an awkward silence.
Not a movement, not a voice, just an awkward silence.
not relaxed or confident
His movements were slow and awkward.
Piggy's "value" is not apparent to the boys because it is concealed by the sight of his awkward self: he is plump, he wears thick spectacles, he is not gifted with good health.
a very young child
a baby boy/girl
baby clothes
Sandra had a baby on May 29th.
Every day Elisa goes to work, makes dinner for her little baby and watches the T.V. with her husband.
a very young animal
a baby elephant/monkey
They would take us to see some baby sharks, dolphins, and whales.
to look after someone's child in their home while they are not there
I babysit for Jane on Tuesday evenings.
As you know I am an au pair in London and I sometimes have to babysit in the evening.
someone who takes care of your child while you are out
I promised the babysitter that we'd be home by midnight.
Write me an e-mail and I will send you the address of the family who needs a babysitter.
where someone or something was before
When do you go back to college?
I put the tin back in the cupboard.
She went back home at once.
as a reply or reaction to something
I'm busy at the moment - can I call you back?
I waved to her and she waved back.
Write back to me soon.
in a direction behind you
He sat back on the sofa.
Anna stepped back.
I cried out, stepping back and falling down.
to the state something or someone was in before
It's not badly broken - I'm sure we can put it back together again.
Hopefully things will get back to normal soon.
I was woken by a thunderstorm, and I couldn't get back to sleep.
My life was back to normal.
at or to an earlier time
We first met back in 1971.
This tradition dates back to the 16th century.
All in all, it is difficult to get bored in Moscow, where you can see buildings which date back to centuries ago.
in a direction away from something
He pulled back the curtain.
The house is set back from the road.
The action of the book takes place in a lonely inn standing back from the road.
in one direction, then the opposite way, then in the original direction again many times
He has to travel back and forth between London and Paris every week.
Finally, after much walking back and forth, we found a road which we followed till we got to the town.
the part of something that is furthest from the front or in the opposite direction to the front
He wrote her email address down on the back of an envelope.
Our seats were right at the back of the theatre.
My cousins love mermaids, so each sweater has one on the back.
the part of your body from your shoulders to your bottom
back injuries/pain
I've got a bad back.
He lay on his back, staring at the ceiling.
The look on his face stopped me cold, as if someone had just poured freezing water down my back.
with the back part of something where the front should be
You've got your trousers on back to front.
Therefore, the government needs to cut expenditure and as a result of this, health facilities will only be accessible for rich people. Then we are back to front.
If you do something behind someone's back, you do it without them knowing, often in an unfair way.
Have they been saying things about me behind my back?
The food must be perfect, too, or else her mother-in-law and my father's sisters will think that she's not a proper wife, and will probably say insulting things about her behind her back.
to decide to stop having contact with someone or something, or to refuse to help someone
She turned her back on Hollywood and went to live in Florida.
She gets to learn that Olivia turned her back on her past and merged totally with India through her attraction to and sympathy for the Nawab.
If criticisms, insults, etc. are like water off a duck's back to you, they do not affect you at all.
She calls him lazy and useless, but it's like water off a duck's back.
The main lesson I have learned is by looking at some people who have lived alone for most of their life and faced with neither contradiction nor argument, they stay in their ivory tower, so sure of their opinions that whatever you say is like water off a duck's back.
at or near the back of something
a back door/garden
the back page/seat
I put it in the back pocket of my jeans.
There are two movies, but one is for adults so we will see "The back garden".
a very small road or street that goes behind or between buildings
We wandered through the back streets, looking for Tommy.
From the museum you have to walk across a pedestrian street, through an unspoiled district, where a jumble of narrow back streets retain old-world characters.
to move backwards or drive backwards
She saw he had a gun and backed away.
He backed into a wall when he was trying to park.
When he backed out of the car park he almost crashed into another car.
to give support or help to a person, plan, or idea
He backed Mr Clark in the recent election.
Parents backed the idea by more than two to one.
Of course, without the people who are backing the leader in his fight, he could not achieve his success.
pain in your back
I had terrible backache last week.
I had a backache.
a person's education, family and experience of life
The school has pupils from many different ethnic/cultural/religious backgrounds.
They come from a wealthy background.
You can learn a lot about our cultural background.
sounds that you can hear that are not the main sounds that you are listening to
background music/noise
If you listen carefully to this piece of music, you can hear a flute in the background.
The exotic food together with oriental music in the background makes you dream of exotic places.
the things that can be seen behind the main things or people in a picture
gold stars on a black background
The artist himself did not paint the backgrounds to his pictures - they were done by his pupils.
He has photographed her against lots of different backgrounds.
I think it would make the background of the picture colourful and interesting.
the situation that an event happens in, or things which have happened in the past which affect it
These decisions have had to be taken against a background of high unemployment.
Can you give me some background on the situation?
The background of the story is life in a small town in one of the southern states of the USA in the early 1930s.
If a person stays in the background, they try not to be noticed.
His father hovered in the background.
But Piggy plays this role in the background because he knows that he won't be accepted.
support, especially money, for a person or plan
financial backing
The proposal has the full backing of the government.
Take some examples throughout history, such as Napoleon, who was very intelligent, and Hitler who, despite being dangerous and evil, had the backing of his country when he spoke to the people.
a bag that you carry on your back
I couldn't fit anything else in my backpack.
Travelling with a backpack is very handy.
someone, especially a young person, who travels around an area without spending much money, carrying a backpack
The hostel is used mainly by backpackers.
There is a special offer for backpackers.
when you travel around an area without spending much money, carrying a backpack
I went backpacking when I was a student.
Until now I mainly spent my holidays backpacking through Europe.
extra help, support or equipment which is available if you need it
Medical staff are on call to provide backup in case of an emergency.
I'm sure that most business people have battery back-up and a very good knowledge of when the laptop battery needs to recharge.
a copy of information that is held on a computer, which is stored separately from the computer
Before we leave work each day, we make a backup of all the records we have entered into the computer that day.
The department's backup disks are all stored in a different building.
Seems he had made a copy in a special file in a backup memory.
less developed or slower to develop than normal
a backward country
No longer a remote, backward, unimportant country, it became a force to be reckoned with in Europe.
towards the direction behind you
I walked backwards towards the door.
He took a step backwards to allow her to pass.
Very often, for example on Friday afternoon or Saturday, there are so many people in a shopping centre that you can't move forwards or backwards.
meat from a pig cut into long thin slices
a bacon sandwich
a slice of bacon
bacon and eggs
I like bacon very much but I ever eat it.
very small living things that sometimes cause disease
The infection was caused by bacteria in the lung.
We were just lucky that during that period, the weather was cold and low temperatures prevented bacteria from spreading.
unpleasant; causing difficulties or harm
Our holiday was ruined by bad weather.
We've just had some very bad news.
Watch out - he's in a bad mood.
The queues were so bad that I didn't bother waiting.
The weather was bad so we stayed in my house.
of low quality and not acceptable
The food was so bad we couldn't eat it.
He has some very bad habits.
He was sent home from school for bad behaviour.
I'm very bad at cooking.
I was on the beach when my mobile phone rang. It was my boyfriend apologizing for his bad behaviour at the party we had had the night before.
satisfactory
That's not bad for such a small company.
The presents are not bad.
to be harmful for someone or something
Looking at a computer screen for too long can be bad for your eyes.
I don't like playing on the computer because it's bad for my eyes.
very serious or severe
a bad injury
the worst flooding for years
I can't go because I have to go to the hospital to see my grandmother who is in very bad health.
not lucky, or not happening how you would like
It was just bad luck that she heard us.
I'll call you later if this is a bad time for you.
Actually he had bad luck in his exam this time but he can try to do his best next time, can't he?
to feel guilty or sorry about something that has happened
I felt bad about letting her down.
I don't have anything else which was yours, and I feel so bad about it.
used to say that you are sorry about a situation
"He didn't get the job." "Oh, that's too bad."
Too bad you couldn't be here.
(of people or actions) evil or morally unacceptable
There are a lot of bad people in the world.
He's got his faults but he's not a bad person.
On this day our God Ram killed a bad man Ravan who took Ram's wife Sita.
Bad food is not fresh and cannot be eaten.
I think this milk is bad.
My surprise was when I opened the fridge and all the food smelt bad, so I couldn't eat anything.
If you have a bad arm, leg, heart, etc., there is something wrong with it and it is painful.
I've got a bad shoulder.
I'm lugging my laptop with me everywhere, with a bad back as a result.
used to say that nothing can be done to change a situation
I know you don't want to go but it's too bad, we have to.
Human beings have to make their own lives as good as possible, and if they do not succeed, the cynical approach is just: too bad!
a piece of metal, plastic, etc., with words or a picture on it which you wear on your clothes
Everyone at the conference wore a badge with their name on.
Then I saw the badge he was wearing.
in a way that is not acceptable or of good quality
They played very badly in the first half of the match.
The event was badly organized.
Their children are extremely badly-behaved.
He did badly in his exams.
I had done badly in my last exam and my teacher said she would talk to my mother.
very much
He needs the money very badly.
They are badly in need of help.
I need that very badly because I need my five-thousand rupees urgently.
very seriously
badly damaged/hurt/injured
My brother told me that he crashed into the tree with his car and he was badly injured.
in an unpleasant way
I thought he was treated very badly.
In the past, zoos treated animals quite badly.
a sport for two or four people in which you hit a light object with feathers over a net
We had a game of badminton.
I like reading and playing badminton.
describes a person who becomes angry and annoyed easily
She's very bad-tempered in the mornings!
It would be possible too that you lost your temper and became a bad-tempered man.
a container made of paper, plastic, leather, etc., used for carrying things
a paper/plastic bag
a bag of apples/nuts
He packed his bags and left.
I put my bag in the hall under the chair.
all the cases and bags that you take with you when you travel
How many pieces of baggage do you have?
We had to pay extra for our excess baggage.
I didn't have much baggage, only one green suitcase.
feelings and experiences from the past that influence how you think and behave now
emotional baggage
Moreover they need to spend it to the best of their abilities trying to bring up a happy person whose behaviour will be in harmony with his thoughts and feelings and who will be unencumbered with emotional baggage resulting from lack of love.
to cook something such as bread or a cake with dry heat in an oven
I baked a cake.
freshly baked bread
Bake at 180°C for about 20 minutes.
Bake for 5-7 minutes in a preheated oven.
I can bake some pizzas and cakes if you want me to.
someone who makes and sells bread, cakes, etc. A shop that sells bread and cakes is usually called a baker's.
My aunt, who is a baker, can certainly make a big delicious birthday cake for Anna.
a place where bread, cakes, etc. are made or sold
I buy all our bread in the local bakery.
The best bakery was on the other side of town.
when the weight of someone or something is spread in such a way that they do not fall over
I lost my balance and fell off the bike.
She had to hold onto the railings to keep her balance.
I began to go downstairs to the kitchen, with two hands on the wall to keep my balance.
when the correct amount of importance is given to each thing so that a situation is successful
We must try to get a balance between police powers and the protection of citizens.
He was concerned that taking on three more men could upset the gender balance in the department.
It is not easy to find the right balance in our lives.
the amount of money that you still have to pay, or that you have left to use
I always pay off the balance on my credit card.
Sometimes you are surprised when you check the balance of your bank account and then need to cut down your expenses for 2 months.
used to give your opinion after you have considered all the facts about something
On balance, I'd prefer to come straight home.
On balance, no matter how important or useful computers may be, they will never replace the pleasure of re-reading familiar pages of your favourite books.
to give two things the same amount of attention
It's important to strike a balance between spending and saving.
Everything has good and bad sides, the most important thing is to strike a balance.
If something is or hangs in the balance, nobody knows if it will continue to exist in the future or what will happen to it.
After a bad year, Judd's career hung in the balance.
And because of him it was really very much in the balance if she would accept this job or not.
to be in a position where you will not fall to either side, or to put something in this position
She was trying to balance a book on her head.
The flamingoes balanced gracefully on one leg.
If you have to take many things with you, it will be better to carry them in your car, rather than balancing them on your bicycle.
to give several things equal amounts of importance, time or money so that a situation is successful
I struggle to balance work and family commitments.
In life we need to balance all the areas included in human behaviour.
a healthy mixture of different types of food
If you have a balanced diet, you are getting all the vitamins you need.
It is very important to have a balanced diet.
considering all the facts in a fair way
The news programme prided itself on its balanced reporting.
Your report contained several mistakes and it did not give a balanced view.
a small area joined to the wall outside an upper room where you can stand or sit
We had a drink out on the balcony and watched the sunset.
It's got a balcony, too, from where I can see the river.
the seats in an upper area of a theatre
We had seats in the balcony.
The balcony seats reserved for students and young tourists felt like they were located on a steep cliff, looking down on all the heads in the better seats rather than at the stage.
with little or no hair on the head
At twenty he was already going bald.
He has a bald patch.
Police Officers jumped out from the bushes and subdued the bald man, Lew Juan Yee.
a round object that you throw, kick, or hit in a game, or something with this shape
a beach/golf/tennis ball
She threw a ball at me and I caught it.
Just try to concentrate on hitting/kicking the ball.
a ball of wool
The kitten curled itself into a ball.
They gave me a ball and a T-shirt.
to be quick to understand and react to things
She's over ninety, but she's still on the ball.
When you're at Sants station, you'll need to be on the ball to find the tube.
to begin an activity that involves a group of people
I've started the ball rolling by setting up a series of meetings.
(a theatrical work with) a type of dancing where carefully organized movements tell a story or express an idea
a ballet dancer
Both children do ballet.
She is always making me laugh, and she likes ballet too!
a small, coloured rubber bag that you blow air into or fill with air until it is round in shape, used for decoration at parties or as a children's toy
We tied balloons and streamers to the ceiling ready for the party.
In the party room there were many balloons.
to forbid something, especially officially
The film was banned in several countries.
She was banned from driving for two years.
Personally, I think that driving private cars in the main parts of cities should be banned.
an official order that prevents something from happening
There should be a ban on talking loudly in cinemas.
a long curved fruit with a yellow skin
a bunch of bananas
banana milkshake
Could you chop up a banana for the fruit salad?
a group of musicians who play modern music together
a jazz/rock band
The Beatles are probably the most famous band in the world.
Can we have a rock band like Etho?
a piece of material put around something
an elastic band
The instructor took them up to the bridge and neatly tied them up to the enormous elastic band.
a long piece of soft cloth that you tie around an injured part of the body
She had a bandage around her wrist.
The doctor said that in one week he would take off my bandage and as soon as possible I'll come to visit you.
to become involved in an activity which is successful so that you can get the advantages of it yourself
Publishers are rushing to get on the digital downloads bandwagon.
Jane and Tiffany decided to jump on the bandwagon and started to take off their clothes.
to make a sudden loud noise or to cause something to do this
She banged her fist angrily on the table.
Outside a door was banging in the wind.
He could hear someone banging at the door.
One Friday afternoon I was putting away clothes and shoes in the little room which is under the stairs, when my little son, Tom (who was just eighteen months old) banged the door shut behind me.
a sudden loud noise
The window slammed shut with a loud bang.
I was reading when I suddenly heard a big bang.
an organization or place where you can borrow money, save money, etc.
I need to go to the bank at lunchtime.
I had to take out a bank loan to start my own business.
She works in a bank.
sloping raised land, especially along the sides of a river
By the time we reached the opposite bank, the boat was sinking fast.
These flowers generally grow on river banks and near streams.
One bank of the river is stony, the other is sandy.
an arrangement with a bank to keep your money there and to allow you to take it out when you need to
I've opened a bank account with a building society.
I paid the money into my bank account this morning.
The man, whose name I can't remember, wrote a serious-looking message in which he talked about a money transfer to a Swiss bank account.
someone with an important position in a bank
She was a successful banker by the time she was forty.
the business of operating a bank
international banking
I want to specialize in finance and banking.
unable to continue in business because you cannot pay your debts
He went bankrupt after only a year in business.
But the greed for easy money is likely to diminish as many businesses have gone bankrupt these last few months.
a place where especially alcoholic drinks are sold and drunk, or the area in such a place where the person serving the drinks stands
I met him in a bar in Budapest.
There weren't any free tables, so I sat at the bar.
Why don't you ask the guy behind the bar?
Every day she works in the hotel and a bar.
a substance that has been made into a solid, rectangular shape
a bar of soap
a chocolate bar
I think I've got the right present for your cousins. What do you think about a bar of chocolate from Switzerland?
a straight stick made of metal
The gorilla rattled the bars of its cage.
When they looked into the lake, they saw a long bar of gold.
in prison
He will spend the rest of his life behind bars.
In the darkness, Lew Kuan Yee had sworn revenge against Michael, the detective who had sent him behind bars.
something that prevents you doing something or having something
Lack of money should not be a bar to a good education.
Nevertheless, fashion could be felt as a bar to our own liberty since the magazines impose their views on the customers.
a party at which meat and other food is cooked and eaten outdoors
We're having a barbecue on Saturday.
I didn't get any presents, because we decided to buy more things for my barbecue.
a piece of equipment used for cooking food outdoors
Put the vegetables on the barbecue.
to cook food on a barbecue
Their traditional sausages are delicious grilled or barbecued.
someone whose job is to cut men's hair. The place where a barber works is usually called the barber's.
Dad goes to the barber's once a month.
My mother told me to go to the barber because I had my hair very long.
not covered by clothes
a bare chest
bare arms/feet/legs
Most people had more essential needs to satisfy than their looks, but there were also women who painted tight-patterns on their bare legs to create a bit of post-war glamour.
not covered by anything
There's no carpet in the room, just bare floorboards.
Mary must move to an unattractive site on the bare and wild moorland, called Jamaica Inn.
including only the smallest amount that you need of something
The report just gave us the barest facts about the accident.
Tony's salary only covers the bare essentials for the family.
Staffing levels will be kept to a bare minimum this year.
Having passed the "prime" of their lives, many of them would be satisfied with the bare minimum as far as material things are concerned.
empty
a bare room
The cupboard was bare.
Olivia decorates her "nest" with pictures, plugs and pale yellow sofas, according to the fashion in Europe, whereas the granddaughter is fully satisfied with a bare room.
without using any type of tool or weapon when doing something that requires a lot of strength
He wrestled the lion to the ground with his bare hands.
You could tell your grand-children about the good old days when you hunted for mammoths and skinned them with your bare hands, just a few million years back (sigh: "seems like yesterday").
only just
They have barely enough to pay the rent this month.
She was barely fifteen when she won her first championship.
His father replied in a voice barely above a whisper.
something that is on sale for less than its usual price or its real value
This coat was half-price - a real bargain.
The airline regularly offers last-minute bookings at bargain prices.
And it was a real bargain.
as well as everything else
Caffeine has no good effects on health and is mildly addictive into the bargain.
The Open Air Museum is unique, with vast numbers of old houses; you can roam there for days and receive history lessons into the bargain.
If a dog barks, it makes loud, short sounds.
They heard a dog barking outside.
He barks whenever there is a stranger in our house.
to say something loudly and quickly
I'm sorry, I had no right to bark at you like that.
She knew at once that Daniel, the boss, had returned. ... As the day wore on and from her office she heard Daniel barking at everyone and anyone, she became more and more annoyed.
the hard, outside part of a tree
The bark of the birch tree is white.
By hitting the bark of trees or hollow pieces of wood rhythmically, prehistoric humans tended to communicate or entertain themselves.
a man who serves drinks in a bar
I asked the barman for some ice in my drink.
I have seen an advertisement for a barman.
a large building on a farm where crops or animals can be kept
The machinery was kept in an old barn.
When she came to she was in a sort of barn, and to her horror she realised that her feet were encased in a lump of cement and her hands were firmly tied behind her back.
a type of fence that stops people from going into an area
Barriers have been erected all along the route the Pope will take.
Only these people can open the barrier with their keys.
something that prevents people from doing what they want to do
Despite the language barrier, they soon became good friends.
Shyness is one of the biggest barriers to making friends.
We have to work at breaking down barriers between the two communities.
I think I could be good at this job because I could plan safety programmes in case of an emergency and the language barrier would not be a problem if a spectator or a sportsman asked me for information.
the bottom part of something, or the part something rests on
a crystal glass with a heavy base
At the base of the cliff was a rocky beach.
a place where people in the armed forces live
an American Air Force base
an old army/naval/military base
During the day you can visit all of our museums or schools or even the air force base, which is open from 9 o'clock.
the main place where a person lives and works, or from where they do things
I spend a lot of time in Dallas, but Chicago is still my base.
Nice is an excellent base for exploring the French Riviera.
It also has a function as a base for the fishing industry. Being located on the coast, our town's key industry is fishing.
the most important part of something, from which other things can develop
a solid economic base
Other organisations have assured us regular funds so that our project stands on a firm financial base.
to have a particular town or area, etc. as the main place where you live and work, or where you do business from
He was based in Birmingham during the war.
The shop is based in London.
(the ball used in) a game played by two teams of nine players, in which a player hits a ball with a bat and tries to run around the four corners of a large square area of the field before the other team returns the ball
Jake never played baseball like the other kids.
He had a baseball and a couple of bats in his sports bag.
I like playing baseball, so let's play together!
a room or set of rooms that is below ground level in a building
a basement flat
There is also a swimming pool in the basement.
being the main or most important part of something
basic ideas/principles
The basic problem is that they don't talk to each other enough.
He started to teach me the basic knowledge of nuclear physics.
including or providing only the things that are most necessary
basic services/skills/training
He only has a basic command of English.
The crisis has led to price rises in basic foodstuffs, such as meat, cheese and sugar.
You must take a pencil, rubber, ruler, pen... the basic things.
very simple, with nothing special added
It's the most basic model.
The decoration was basic, but homely.
used to introduce a short explanation about something
Basically, what he's saying is that we need more time.
Basically, we spend half our leisure time being stuck to a screen and leading a so-called couch potato lifestyle.
in the most important ways
These two machines are basically the same, but you get a few extra features in the more expensive one.
The car's basically sound, but the paintwork needs a bit of attention.
Although they will offer some hot meals at any time, most of the food provided is basically fast food and snacks.
the most important facts, skills, or needs
I really must learn the basics of first aid.
Last year, I chose to take groups on sailing and diving trips because I already knew the basics of sailing and diving.
the bowl that is fixed to the wall in a bathroom, where you wash your hands and face
I've cleaned the basin and scrubbed the bath.
I think I forgot it upstairs in the bathroom on the basin.
how often something happens or is done
Meetings are held on a weekly basis.
In order for the transport facilities such as bus stops or underground stations to improve, policemen should be assigned to guard them and cleaners should be assigned to clean them on a daily basis.
a way or method of doing something
Most of our staff work for us on a voluntary basis.
I'm hoping she'll join us on a permanent basis.
On the other hand, the job advert is not very precise about the salary you can earn on a full-time basis.
the reason for something
There is no scientific basis for these claims.
I cannot imagine on what basis you estimated the figure.
having something as a reason
Marks are awarded on the basis of progress and performance.
On the basis of the points mentioned above, it is a foregone conclusion that young people do not face any severe problems.
a situation, fact, or idea from which something can develop
Dani's essay can serve as a basis for our discussion.
As a basis for my proposals, I'll use the programme you sent to me.
a container, usually with a handle, that is made of thin pieces of wood, wire, plastic, etc.
a shopping/picnic basket
a laundry/clothes basket
As I approached the sound, I saw something that was moving inside a basket. It was a baby, crying with hunger.
a game in which two teams try to score points by throwing a ball through a high net, or the ball used in this game
He plays a lot of basketball.
He likes to play basketball every day in the sports centre.
a specially shaped piece of wood used for hitting the ball in many games
a baseball/cricket/rounders/table tennis bat
They gave me a cricket bat, some books and a pen.
a small animal like a mouse with wings that flies at night
Bats were swooping through the night air.
A bat flew close to my left ear and far away I heard some strange sounds.
when you wash your body in a bath, or the water in the bath
I had/took a bath this morning.
bath oil
You can take a bath in my bathroom.
the container that you sit or lie in to wash your body
Have you cleaned the bath?
I started cleaning the bath with bleach, and I marked my new dress.
a room with a bath and/or shower and often a toilet
an ensuite bathroom
I think it's in the bathroom under the WC.
a device that produces electricity to provide power for mobile phones, laptop computers, radios, cars, etc.
My car has got a flat battery.
a rechargeable battery
a battery-operated hair dryer
This alarm clock takes two medium-sized batteries.
I left it turned on, so the battery must be very low.
to have a period of rest and relaxation so that you feel energetic again
She took a trip to the south of France to recharge her batteries.
It is a very effective way in which we could rejuvenate ourselves and recharge our batteries in order to face the difficulties of the daily routine.
a fight between armed forces in a war
the Battle of the Somme
He was killed in battle.
But he died in a battle, so nobody knew where the treasure was hidden!
a fight against something that is very difficult, or that is hurting or destroying you
a long battle against cancer
His life was a hard battle, trying to break through.
when two people or groups compete against each other or have an argument about something
a battle for control in the boardroom
A very important point is that there must always be a discussion between children and parents, which allows everyone to understand the different points of view and avoids a constant battle between the family members.
to try very hard to do something difficult or to fight against someone or something
Throughout the campaign, Johnson was battling against health problems.
They spent all of last year battling with housing officials.
Many countries are battling with environmental problems and certain tourists feel that it is perfectly acceptable to leave their litter behind them on beaches and other public places, after all in two or three weeks they can leave it all behind them.
an area of coast where the land curves in
Dublin Bay
the Bay of Naples
It's also possible to hire a small yacht there and have a trip round the bay.
to prevent something unpleasant from coming near you or from happening
Gunmen kept police at bay for almost four hours.
The Leary brothers are unable to cope with real life, which reinforces their innate ability to keep the world at bay and themselves untouched by life and love.
used to give information about someone or something
He was six at the time.
They were late.
The film was great.
My friend's name is Sarah. there is/there are/there was, etc. I'm tired. I'm very well, thank you. Hi, I'm Sylvie. He's tall. They aren't German, they're from Austria.
used to say that someone or something exists
There are six Italians in the class.
There are three bedrooms.
There's a shop at the end of the road.
There was a good programme on TV last night.
Is there a problem?
There are many interesting things.
used to say or ask where someone or something is
He's in the garden.
Are you there?
I'm here!
The plates are in this cupboard.
Where is that letter?
My college is in Braintree.
used to say that someone has gone to a place and returned from that place
I've been to Mexico.
Have you ever been to the US?
I like Japanese people and I've been to Japan three times.
used with the present participle of other verbs to describe actions that are or were still continuing
I'm still eating.
She's studying to be a lawyer.
The audience clearly wasn't enjoying the show.
You're always complaining.
I'll be coming back on Tuesday.
I'm thinking of painting it blue.
used with the past participle of other verbs to form the passive
This dessert is made from eggs, sugar, and cream.
A body was discovered by the police.
The results will be announced next week.
I haven't been invited.
They were asked to leave.
I like it very much, because it is interesting and it was written by an excellent author, Lev Tolstoy.
an area of sand or small stones next to the sea
We spent the day on the beach.
a beach café
a beach towel
After, I went to the beach with my family.
the hard part of a bird's mouth
It carried a huge stick in its beak.
It is an elegant bird, about 2 ft tall, with grey feathers, a black tail and a yellow beak.
a line of light shining from something
a laser beam
I was beginning to feel rather impatient when a door opened letting a beam of light come into the dark room.
a seed, or the pod containing seeds, of various climbing plants, eaten as a vegetable
soya beans
French beans
Coffee beans are the bean-like seeds of the coffee tree.
Everybody likes to eat beans, rice, chips and meat, but on Saturday, people like a special lunch.
a large, strong, wild animal with thick fur
a brown/black bear
a bear cub
I love bears, you know.
to accept someone or something unpleasant
I like her but I can't bear her friends.
I can't bear being bored.
He couldn't bear to see the dog in pain.
How can you bear to talk to him?
And I'd like to stay in a log cabin because I can't bear sleeping in a tent.
to remember to consider someone or something that may be useful in the future
Thank you for your advice, I'll bear it in mind.
It would be a great opportunity, bearing in mind that we are majoring in fashion journalism.
to have or show a particular name, picture, or symbol
The shop bore his family name.
He founded at least 17 cities bearing his name, as centres of art and culture.
to turn left or right
Bear right at the next set of traffic lights.
The taxi has to bear left at the fork and then you can see my house, 200 yards on the right side, it's a white house with the number 53.
to be similar to someone or something
He bears a striking resemblance to his father.
The concert bore no resemblance to any other I have been to, firstly due to the location, and secondly thanks to the spontaneity, yet impressive precision of the performance - the two factors which created the unique atmosphere of the event.
to continue to have a bad feeling towards someone
They were rude to her in the past, but she's not the kind of woman who bears grudges.
They take everything for granted and this leaves them completely unprepared for the harsh reality of life - not to mention that they are likely to bear a grudge.
to give birth to a child
She has been told that she will never bear children.
Women can still bear children at the age of 30. In the past this was not possible because either the mother or the baby would have died.
If something that someone does bears fruit, it produces successful results.
Our decision is just beginning to bear fruit.
Although a new hotel and conference centre would greatly improve the image of our town, I consider it a costly investment that might not bear fruit.
to accept an unpleasant or difficult situation because there is nothing you can do to improve it
I hate my job, but I'm just going to have to grin and bear it for a while.
As I couldn't simply get up and go away, I just had to grin and bear it for a little while longer.
the hair that grows on a man's chin
a long white beard
He's growing a beard.
He shaved off his beard but kept his moustache.
He has a nice beard.
to defeat or do better than
Simon always beats me at tennis.
Holland beat Belgium (by) 3-1.
The nationalists were narrowly beaten in the local election.
She has beaten her own record of three minutes ten seconds.
Sebastian beat me 6-2.
When your heart beats, it makes regular movements and sounds.
By the time the doctor had arrived, his heart had stopped beating.
My heart was beating like a bell and I was really excited.
to hit a person or animal repeatedly
They saw him beating his dog with a stick.
She was beaten to death.
He began to drink, and when he was drunk, he beat Kelly.
to be better than something
Being at the youth club beats sitting at home.
The sight of a child cured from an immobilizing disease running around laughing and dancing is pure happiness, nothing beats it.
to mix food using hard, quick movements
Beat the egg whites until they are stiff.
to avoid talking about something difficult or embarrassing
I decided to stop beating around the bush and told him exactly what I thought of him.
Well, let's stop beating about the bush and get to the point.
to hit against something hard, making a continuous or regular sound
soldiers beating drums
We could hear the pigeons beating their wings.
Rain beat against the windows.
The sound of the pelting rain beating against the slates made the minutes last longer than ever and my cosy sofa looked so cold and small.
used to emphasize that something is best
You can't beat Pedro's for a great pizza.
You can't beat their "French cuisine" she usually said, when asked why didn't she change the place.
a regular movement or sound, especially that made by your heart
I put my head on his chest but I could feel no heart beat.
My heart missed a beat when she said, "Yes, I'll marry you".
She started to exhale after a moment, counting the beats of her heart.
the main rhythm of a piece of music
The guitar comes in on the third beat.
He tapped his foot to the beat of the music.
They play rock with a very good beat.
very attractive
a beautiful woman
beautiful scenery
She was wearing a beautiful dress.
Nelson loves football, beautiful girls, a big steak with chips, etc.
very pleasant
a beautiful piece of music
beautiful weather
I like pop music but I prefer classical music because it's the most beautiful.
in a way that is beautiful
She dresses beautifully.
Their house is beautifully decorated.
My room is big and beautifully decorated.
the quality of being beautiful
This is an area of outstanding natural beauty.
It's a very nice place and I wanted to record its beauty.
the quality that makes something especially good or attractive
The beauty of the plan is that it won't cost anything.
used to give a reason for something
We can't go to Julia's party because we're going away that weekend.
"Why did you do it?" "Because Carlos told me to".
Just because I'm lending you my dress for tonight doesn't mean you can borrow it whenever you want to.
I will be at your house at 7.30 because I have an appointment before that.
as a result of
The train was delayed because of bad weather.
He always had rows with his parents because of his school results.
to start to be something
They became great friends.
That's when I decided to become a teacher.
I think we will become good friends.
something you say when you want to know what has happened to someone
Whatever became of your friend Harry?
You might ask yourself: who is this girl in the room and what became of that friend of hers?
a piece of furniture that you sleep on
He lived in a room with only two chairs, a bed and a table.
He likes to have breakfast in bed on a Saturday morning.
She didn't get out of bed till lunchtime today.
I'm exhausted - I'm going to bed.
I'd like to sell my bed.
the ground at the bottom of the sea, a river, etc.
the sea bed
They landed upside down on a river bed and almost everyone was killed during the fall.
a piece of ground that is used for growing plants, especially flowers
a flower bed
Having lived in a small town in a cosy detached house with a flower bed in front and an enormous garden at the back, I was as happy as I'd ever been.
a room used for sleeping in
Our home has three bedrooms.
I think my T-shirt is in your bedroom.
a yellow and black flying insect which makes honey and can sting you
A swarm of bees flew into the garden.
I was stung by a bee.
Did you know that bees are endangered?
the meat of a cow
roast beef
They like eating beef, lamb and salad.
an alcoholic drink made from grain
a pint of beer
Would you like another beer?
This beer is brewed in Mexico.
She likes drinking beer and sometimes goes to the nightclub.
earlier than something or someone
two days before the summer holidays
She arrived before me.
You should always wash your hands before meals.
Think hard before accepting the offer.
We will come before 7 o'clock and help you with dinner.
at a place that you arrive at first when travelling towards another place
The hospital is just before the bridge.
Drivers've got often a problem with finding some space and there is another problem - the car park is open just until 8 pm, so the better thing to do is leave a car in car park before the city centre.
in a position in front of someone or something
I've never performed this before an audience.
in front of someone or something in an order or a list
The letter K comes before L in the English alphabet.
treated as more important than someone or something
They always put the children's needs before their own.
She puts people with their needs before her own comfort, that is why she is successful.
earlier than the time when something happens
He was a teacher before he became famous.
Before he could reach the door, she quickly closed it.
Before we make a decision, does anyone want to say anything else?
I think the notebook is in your bedroom. I was studying there before I left your home.
in order to avoid something bad happening
Put that stick down before you hurt someone!
until (the event mentioned)
It took a few moments before I realized that he was joking.
very soon
We'll be there before you know it.
It is a bit dark inside and especially in winter, it is dark before you know it.
at an earlier time, or on a previous occasion
He said he had never seen her before.
I feel as though I've been here before.
My father never bought me any birthday presents before.
a long period of time before something
I was a vegetarian long before I met Sally.
The cups belonged to my family long before I was born and the fact they are a part of my family tradition makes them valuable in my eyes.
to make a very strong and urgent request
They begged for mercy.
"Please, please forgive me!" she begged (him).
He begged her to stay.
But before she left I begged her not to tell anybody.
to ask someone for food or money, because you do not have any
There are more and more homeless people begging on the streets these days.
She had to beg for money and food for her children.
He had a shabby coat, old shoes and he was begging for money.
to start to happen
What time does the concert begin?
The film they want to watch begins at seven.
I think the class began yesterday.
to start to do something
The children began to cry.
Have they begun building the new bridge yet?
We began to talk about music.
to have something at the start
The word 'cat' begins with the letter 'c'.
at the start of a situation
To begin with, the two girls got on well.
It wasn't stunningly beautiful, but a bed and a bathroom is really all we needed to begin with!
used to give the first important reason for something
To begin with, we can't afford to move.
To begin with, it doesn't pollute and I think it's time we started thinking about the environment.
someone who is starting to do or learn something for the first time
I'm a complete beginner at yoga.
This judo class is for beginners only.
The book must have the vocabulary for a beginner.
the first part of something or the start of something
We met at the beginning of 1998.
She sat down and read the book straight through from beginning to end.
I enjoyed my job at/in the beginning, but I'm bored with it now.
At the beginning of the party, we danced and sang.
If you do something on behalf of someone, you do it for them or instead of them.
On behalf of the entire company, I would like to thank you for all your work.
Unfortunately, George cannot be with us today so I am pleased to accept this award on his behalf.
I am writing on behalf of our college English club members to welcome you to our city.
to do or say things in a particular way
She always behaves badly at bedtime.
He's been behaving very strangely recently.
You behaved like an idiot!
As always, I'll behave like a gentleman.
to be polite and not make a situation difficult
Did the children behave (themselves)?
Team sports can also help children to behave themselves.
the way that you behave
bad/good behaviour
Her behaviour was appalling.
Did you notice anything strange about his behaviour?
I was on the beach when my mobile phone rang. It was my boyfriend apologizing for his bad behaviour at the party we had had the night before.
at or to the back of someone or something
Close the door behind you.
Their office is behind the main building.
I think we should meet in front of the restaurant, behind the library.
slower or less successful than someone or something
The project is already behind schedule.
Arsenal are six points behind Manchester United with three matches still to play.
Secondly, the show did not start until 20:15 pm. That was almost one hour behind schedule.
giving your help or support to someone
The group is 100 percent behind her.
He is very nice because if you have problems he is always behind you to help you.
in prison
He will spend the rest of his life behind bars.
In the darkness, Lew Kuan Yee had sworn revenge against Michael, the detective who had sent him behind bars.
causing something, or responsible for something
What was the reason behind her decision to leave?
Another reason behind this kind of thinking is that some boys feel awkward when they see girls and they think they are being ignored in the class.
If a bad experience or your own bad behaviour is behind you, it does not exist or affect your life now.
He's put his criminal past behind him.
We have got to put the past behind us.
If you do something behind someone's back, you do it without them knowing, often in an unfair way.
Have they been saying things about me behind my back?
The food must be perfect, too, or else her mother-in-law and my father's sisters will think that she's not a proper wife, and will probably say insulting things about her behind her back.
privately and not in public
Most of the deals were done behind closed doors.
Decisions which affect the whole world are made behind closed doors and are top secret.
If something happens behind the scenes, it happens secretly.
A lot of hard work has been going on behind the scenes.
Ms. Bolam knew a lot of things going on behind the scenes, which were not known to the patients.
at or to the back of someone or something
Somebody grabbed me from behind.
An old man appeared from behind wearing the same clothes as the owner of the phone and asked her for it.
in the place where someone or something was before
I was annoyed to discover that I'd left my bag behind.
After the party a few people stayed behind to help clear up.
The bus driver told him that a suitcase was left behind because nobody claimed it.
slower or later than someone else, or than you should be
She's behind with the rent.
Those children who do not get this at home are the ones who are behind in their schoolwork.
not fashionable or modern
Dad's a bit behind the times.
We should improve our equipment. Otherwise we will be behind the times.
to start to exist
The new law comes into being next month.
Only with knowledge of the written word were villages able to organise themselves in larger forms of government, leading from local to regional to national levels, and finally leading to transnational structures as they came into being mostly during the last 100 years.
when you believe that something is true or real
a common/popular/widely-held belief
He called at her house in the belief that she would lend him the money.
It is my firm/strong belief that the public have a right to know.
She took this medicine in the mistaken belief that it would cure her.
At this time, tango was considered an immoral type of music; but Carlos Gardel changed this belief, and people from all over the world loved him.
an idea that you are certain is true
All non-violent religious and political beliefs should be respected equally.
We get to know the beliefs, superstitions or the principles of other religious denominations.
the feeling that someone or something is effective or right
a belief in social justice
I'll try to give my children a feeling of security within themselves and a belief in themselves, so that they will be able to stand up to danger in society.
too bad, good, difficult, etc. to be real
The evil of this man is beyond belief.
I completely agree with the idea that homelessness in the third world is increasing to rates beyond belief.
to think that something is true, or that what someone says is true
They believe that their health has suffered because of the chemicals.
I can't believe that she wants to go out with me.
I told you she was there but you wouldn't believe me.
I believe him.
to think something, without being completely sure
"Is she coming alone?" "I believe so."
All the crew are missing, believed dead.
I believe it is in your bedroom.
to be very surprised when you see someone or something, or when you hear what someone says
I couldn't believe my ears when Dan said they were getting married.
Well, this church was extremely simple on the outside, but when I got inside it, I couldn't believe my eyes.
used to say that something is true although it seems surprising
He even remembered my birthday, believe it or not.
First I visited the "Roman Bath'' which is more than 2000 years old and, believe it or not, it still works!
an electrical object that makes a ringing sound when you press a button
Please ring the bell for attention.
I was relaxing at home when suddenly the bell rang.
a hollow, metal object, shaped like a cup, that makes a ringing sound when you hit it
the sound of church bells ringing
At the beginning I was very excited, living in an old house, not too far from the city (you could still hear the church bells chiming) but far enough away to live your own life without nosy neighbours.
If a word, especially a name, rings a bell, you think you have heard it before.
Shane Watson? That name rings a bell.
Its name is Laser - I suppose it rings a bell?
If something belongs somewhere, that is the place it should be in.
This table belongs in the sitting room.
These papers belong with the others.
I can understand people who say that animals belong in nature.
to feel happy or comfortable in a situation
I spent two years in Oxford but I never felt that I belonged there.
the things that a person owns, especially those which can be carried
I put a few personal belongings in a bag and left the house for the last time.
Five different kings have lived there with their families and it is possible to see several of their personal belongings.
in a lower position than someone or something else
From the top of the skyscraper the cars below us looked like insects.
Send your answers to the address below.
I think it's a nice place, because you have a great view of the other mountains and the country below you.
less than a particular amount or level
His marks in English have been below average for some time now.
The temperature has fallen below zero/freezing recently.
We have to learn that it is not natural for a lion to be living in a country where, in winter, the temperature can fall below zero.
lower in rank
Monica is a grade below me.
With him being only 37 years old and having been promoted to the second level below the board of directors of a well-known international company, he seems like a good example of a successful person, at least in this area of success.
a long, thin piece of leather, cloth, or plastic that you wear around your waist
She fastened her belt tightly around her waist.
He had eaten so much that he had to undo his belt.
Juliana gave me a pink belt.
to try to spend less money
Since I lost my job we've all had to tighten our belts.
All this costs money and where do we get this extra money from but from the tax payers, who once again have to tighten their belts.
a long seat for two or more people, usually made of wood or metal
a park bench
At 1 p.m. Paul was sitting on a bench and waiting for Julia.
to move your body or part of your body so that it is not straight
Bend your knees when lifting heavy objects.
She bent down to pick up the pen.
Now, bend forwards/over and touch your toes!
My friend was bending over the table laughing hysterically.
to (cause to) curve
The road bends to the left after the first set of traffic lights.
The trees were bending in the wind.
I saw fir trees bending in half and 500-year-old oaks shedding their leaves.
a curved part of something
There's a bend in the pipe so you can't see from one end to the other.
There's a sharp bend in the road.
The other car disappeared around a sharp bend and when we came round it, we saw that the car had stopped in the middle of the road.
to make someone very angry, especially by continuing to do something annoying
This computer is driving me round the bend.
I could not work with a beginner as it would drive me round the bend if I was interrupted every few minutes and asked to elucidate to him/her something as easy as pie.
under something, or in a lower position than something
Jeremy hid the letter beneath a pile of papers.
After weeks at sea, it was wonderful to feel firm ground beneath our feet once more.
She could feel the train coming because the ground beneath her feet was moving.
If someone or something is beneath you, you think you are too important or from too high a social class to spend time on them.
He thinks housework is beneath him.
He hadn't realised how much he would miss the high-life until he was forced to watch all the rich and famous people come into the restaurant and look down on everything and everyone who was beneath them.
If it is beneath your dignity to do something, you think you are too important or from too high a class to do it.
She felt that it was beneath her dignity to wear a name badge.
He thought it was beneath his dignity to talk about his master's decisions and ideas.
helpful, useful or good
The improvement in sales figures had a beneficial effect on the company as a whole.
Exercise is beneficial to almost everyone.
To sum up, team sports are beneficial to children so if the schools they attend do not have any, they should take up something.
something that helps you or gives you an advantage
The discovery of oil brought many benefits to the town.
One of the many benefits of foreign travel is learning how to cope with the unexpected.
He's had the benefit of an expensive education and yet he continues to work as a waiter.
Taking everything into account, the drawbacks far outweigh its benefits.
to choose to believe what someone tells you even though it may be wrong or a lie
She says her train was late, so I suppose we'd better give her the benefit of the doubt.
Every time our parents tell us ".. have you thought about it, are you sure you are not making a mistake?" we just answer "sure I have, no problem." Next time they do, let's give them the benefit of the doubt and let's think twice about the subject.
in order to help someone
We bought the piano for the children's benefit.
Needless to say, I hope you take all this into consideration not only for Gustavo's benefit, but also for the benefit of the astronaut training programme and the world.
to be helped by something or to help someone
I feel that I have benefited greatly from her experience.
How can we benefit those who most need our help?
I am sure that the café would benefit a great deal from a non-smoking-area.
a small round fruit on particular plants and trees
I usually scatter a few berries on my muesli.
Every day we were swimming, fishing, picking mushrooms and berries, hunting and making fires to prepare food.
next to someone or something, or very near them
Come and sit here beside me.
Our school was built right beside a river.
We shall go shopping after the film because the shopping complex is beside the cinema.
to experience a powerful emotion
He was beside himself with rage.
Spending one's spare time being beside oneself with anger scarcely ever makes holidays enjoyable.
not important or not connected with what you are talking about
The fact that he doesn't want to come is beside the point - he should have been invited.
in addition to something or someone
Do you play any other sports besides football and basketball?
It's a Chinese food buffet but besides Chinese food they also have Italian food like pizza.
used to give another reason for something
She won't mind your being late - besides, it's hardly your fault.
I think that I'm going to buy "Troy" because it looks to me to be a great movie - besides, it reminds me of your vacations in Mexico.
in addition to
Besides looking after the children, she runs a successful business.
But besides playing, you can also sit in the "club lounge", where you can drink something with your friends or just play cards.
(superlative of good) better than any other
She was my best friend.
This is the best meal I've ever had.
He's one of our best students.
Are you sure this is the best way of doing it?
Your parents only want what is best for you.
She likes to meet me every day because we are best friends.
something that you write at the end of a letter
With best wishes, Anna
Best wishes is a polite way of finishing a letter to someone.
the thing that is best, if you cannot have or do the thing you really want
Coaching football is the next best thing to playing.
For many working people, there is hardly time to cook and prepare your dinner, so the next best thing is to rush into a Macdonalds' or Burger King.
Someone’s best bet is the action most likely to be successful.
If you want to get to the theater on time, your best bet is to get a cab.
The international cuisine chef can whip up some delicious creations from time to time; but your best bet is to go for one of the delicious steaks served.
(superlative of well) most, or more than any other
Which of the songs did you like best?
They were the best-dressed couple at the party.
I like Australia best.
(superlative of well) in the most suitable or satisfactory way
I sleep best with the window open.
The Grand Canyon is best seen at sunset when it seems to change colour.
It would be best if you came on Wednesday 27th.
to be the most suitable person to have responsibility and make important decisions
When it comes to dealing with my own son, I think I know best.
How true is that expression "Father knows best". If my father was alive today he would probably be laughing his head off.
used to say that you hope someone will be happy, healthy, successful, etc., often when saying goodbye
All the best, then - it was nice to meet you!
Please wish him all the best for his new job.
I want to wish you all the best!
someone or something that is better than any other
I like all of Hitchcock's films, but I think 'Notorious' is the best.
Chris and I are the best of friends.
The trip was the best I have ever been on in my life.
at the highest level of achievement or quality
The article is an example of journalism at its best.
I enjoyed this trip because we got to stay in the countryside and see nature at its very best.
to make the greatest effort possible
I did my best to persuade him.
And the police said that they will try their best.
to try to be positive about a situation you do not like but cannot change
Our hotel room is rather small, but we'll just have to make the best of it.
Unfortunately I don't have very much spare time so we will have to arrange it carefully in order to make the best of your time in London.
to have the advantages of two different situations
Living in the country and working in the city you have the best of both worlds.
Only those that can afford to live in the suburban areas can combine the best of both worlds and they tend to be rather affluent.
used to show that the most positive way of considering something is still not good
At best, only 50 per cent of babies born at 24 weeks will survive.
Then, due to the social standards, the old find themselves being abandoned and helpless. At best, such people are hospitalized.
If something is for the best, it seems unpleasant now, but will improve a situation in the future.
Divorce is always painful, but it really was for the best.
It's a kind of sad thing to think about but maybe it's for the best.
to cause someone's best qualities to show
This chance to work with young people has really brought out the best in him.
TV can be a baby-sitter, but such a relationship is not going to bring out the best in a child.
used to show that something is not good when it is the best it can be
He's not exactly patient at the best of times.
They knew that even at the best of times he looked unpleasant but now he was of a completely different appearance.
a very popular book that many people have bought
His latest book is likely to be another bestseller.
Maybe your parents could bring me one of the newest bestsellers, which haven't been translated into Polish yet.
something that you say to show that you believe that something is true or will happen
I bet you she's missed the bus.
I bet that he won't come.
The movie is amazing. I bet you'll see it soon.
to risk money on the result of a game, competition, etc.
He lost all his money betting on horses.
I bet him a dollar that I was right.
The game lost its innocence long before 1985 when players were betting on the result of their own game.
when you risk money on the result of a game, competition, etc.
She won her bet.
He put a bet on Manchester United winning on Saturday.
A couple of betting shops attract many people, mostly men, who often come in a hurry to place a bet, some of them in their working uniform with a large apron.
the best decision or choice
Your best bet in terms of value would be the Regent Hotel.
The international cuisine chef can whip up some delicious creations from time to time; but your best bet is to go for one of the delicious steaks served there.
something that you are certain will happen
Wheeler is a safe bet for a place on the team.
Automatically, we think that black is a safe bet for any occasion.
to behave in a dishonest or cruel way to someone who trusts you
She felt betrayed by her mother's lack of support.
He promised never to betray her.
He couldn't believe that his best friend had betrayed him.
(comparative of good) of a higher quality, more effective, or more enjoyable than something or someone else
She's found a better job.
The film was better than I expected.
She is much better at tennis than I am.
If you cook it this way it's far better.
Relations between the two countries have never been better.
He stood near the front to get a better view.
The situation is getting better all the time.
The longer you keep this wine, the better it tastes.
The bed was hard, but it was better than nothing.
It is a better pen than others.
healthy, or less ill than before
Are you better now?
Is your stomach ache better?
I hope you get better soon.
I visited my cousin last night in hospital. He is better now.
(comparative of well) to a greater degree, or in a more successful or more effective way
I'd like to get to know him better.
Helen did much better than I did in the exam.
But she explained everything very clearly, so I understood better.
used to say what someone should do
You'd better hurry or you'll miss the train.
He'd better not be late.
You'd better bring a notebook.
to have enough experience not to do something stupid or something that will not achieve anything
I thought she'd listen to me - I should have known better.
Surely two grown-ups should have known better than to shout at each other at the top of their lungs.
in the space that separates two places, people or objects
The town lies halfway between Rome and Florence.
Standing between the two adults was a small child.
She squeezed between the parked cars and ran out into the road.
A narrow path ran in between the two houses.
The cinema is between Laura's house and the post office.
in the period of time which separates two different events or times
You shouldn't eat between meals.
There is a break of ten minutes between classes.
The shop is closed for lunch between 12.30 and 1.30.
I will arrive between 10 o'clock and 11 o'clock.
involving two or more groups of people
Tonight's game is between the New Orleans Saints and the Los Angeles Rams.
I would like to go shopping and then see the football match between Spain and Germany.
used to show the largest and smallest amount or level of something
She weighs between 55 and 60 kilograms.
The competition is open to children between six and twelve years of age.
It's for young people aged between 18 and 30 years old.
connecting two or more places, things or people
There is a regular train service between Glasgow and Edinburgh.
We need a motorway link between the motorways 74 and 9.
separating two places or things
The wall between East and West Berlin came down in 1989.
The gap between the rich and the poor has increased dramatically over the past decade.
I think that the most interesting place near my town is the mountains which are like a wall between my country and China.
among two or more people or things
We drank two bottles of wine between four of us.
I think you'll have to discuss the ideas between you.
in the space that separates two people, places, or things
The wood is in neat piles with newspaper placed between.
There is a shuttle bus from the airport straight to the main station with only one stop in between.
in the period of time that separates two events or times
There's a train at 6.15 and one at 10.30 but nothing in between.
Besides, there is research that proves that people cannot work for more than two hours at a time. They can't concentrate that long and they need to rest their minds for short periods in between.
used in order to warn someone to be careful
Beware of the dog.
You should beware of spending too long in the sun.
Although it's fun to surf, beware of the danger...
on the other side of something
In the distance, beyond the river, was a small town.
Suddenly she recognized something red, beyond a tree and covered with some leaves.
continuing after a particular time or date
Few people live beyond the age of a hundred.
We cannot allow the work to continue beyond the end of the year.
You should take a break every two hours because, beyond two hours, your mind cannot record what you are learning.
not able to be changed by me/us, etc.
Tonight's performance has been cancelled due to circumstances beyond our control.
This is a story about an event that turned out to be beyond my control.
involving or affecting other things or people than the ones you have talked about
You should try to develop interests beyond the family.
Of course, the process of women's liberation isn't viewed with enthusiasm by husbands who would have to wash up and cook if their wives wanted to develop women interests beyond their family circle.
If something is beyond you, you cannot understand it.
Computer studies is completely beyond me.
It's beyond me why anyone would want to buy that house.
Lastly, touching upon the subject of the money, how you get the figure of 60% is beyond me, as I have a clear chart of the charity day results.
too bad, good, difficult, etc. to be real
The evil of this man is beyond belief.
It was a piece of luck beyond belief that we could swap our apartments for the six months to come.
certain or certainly
Her skill is beyond dispute.
He is beyond dispute the finest actor in Hollywood today.
It is beyond dispute that we owe a lot to the wise scientists who discovered 'electro-magnetism'.
bigger or better than anything you could imagine or hope for
The house was beyond my wildest dreams.
It was beyond my wildest dreams.
not possible for someone to have
With all this money we can buy things previously beyond our reach.
She was always yearning for things beyond her reach.
past a place
From the top of the hill we could see our house and the woods beyond.
The airport-bus will take you to the centre of Ostersund where I live and even beyond.
continuing after a particular time or date
The strike looks set to continue into March and beyond.
The fact of living longer allows people to share part of their lives with their children, their grandchildren and sometimes even one generation beyond.
when you support or oppose someone or something in an unfair way because you are influenced by your personal opinions
a bias towards/against private education
The news channel has been accused of bias in favour of the government.
It is necessary to get rid of all our previous bias when we go to a foreign country, to achieve a better understanding of the local culture.
showing unfair support for or opposition to someone or something because of your personal opinions
to be biased against/towards younger workers
Maybe it is not an original idea, but I must admit my choice was a little bit biased, since I am reading a book about this era at the moment.
a two-wheeled vehicle that you sit on and move by turning the two pedals
I go to work by bicycle.
He was on his bicycle.
You should never ride your bicycle without lights at night.
I want to sell my bicycle.
an offer to do something when you are competing with other people to do it
We put in a bid for the stadium contract.
London made a successful bid to host the Olympic Games.
I do not believe Beijing would have won the bid for the 2008 Olympic Games.
an attempt to achieve something
a successful bid for re-election
The council has banned cars from the city centre in a bid to reduce pollution.
In a bid to conceal my bewilderment, I greeted her and set about cleaning the house.
an offer to pay a particular amount of money for something
I made a bid of $150 for the painting.
to offer to pay an amount of money for something
They bid $500 million for the company.
As a Tea Company chairman, he buys his tea in Calcutta or Colombo, and generally bids at the right price.
large in size or amount
He's a big man.
Could I try these shoes in a bigger size?
I had a great big slice of chocolate cake.
A thousand people took part in the region's biggest-ever cycle race.
I got a lot of presents: CDs, DVDs, photos, clothes and a big blue bear.
your older brother/sister
My big sister is coming to collect me.
It was given to me by my big brother and I loved it.
important or serious
He had a big decision to make.
There's a big difference between starting up a business and just talking about it.
The big story in the news this week is the minister's resignation.
The four biggest banks are all planning to cut their service charges.
But there was a very big problem: she has a boyfriend.
successful or popular
The programme's been a big hit with young children.
Of course, the many traditional craft stalls were a big hit also, and there were hardly any things left!
used to say that someone or something does something to a large degree
They celebrate birthdays in a big way.
Tourism helps Greece's national economy - which is not at its best - in a big way.
a bicycle
He was on his bike.
My youngest child is learning to ride a bike.
We could go there by bike.
We can go for a walk, ride a bike, or play football and other sports.
a motorcycle
He came on his bike.
a piece of clothing with two parts that women wear for swimming
I packed my bikini for the beach.
Thelma was right: her bikini was really too big for her.
using or able to speak two languages
a bilingual dictionary
She's bilingual.
The staff also seem reluctant to help travellers with their children and it would help if the staff were bilingual.
a piece of paper that tells you how much you must pay for something you have bought or for a service you have used
an electricity/gas/phone bill
They sent us a bill for the work they had done.
Could we have the bill, please?
I've asked for the bill.
I paid the bill and left.
I need it because I must pay the bills.
the number 1 000 000 000
Cosmetics is a billion dollar industry.
There she was, 70m above the sea with a crazy man with a gun behind her and billions of thoughts in her head.
a container for waste
a litter bin
a rubbish bin
The supermarket has installed recycling bins for old newspapers, bottles and cans.
Do you want this or shall I throw it in the bin?
On the other hand more bins ought to be put in the centre and people should be encouraged to separate their rubbish more carefully.
to tie something together with string, rope, etc.
His hands were bound behind his back.
Take this rope and bind yourselves together, so as not to lose someone.
to unite people
Culture and language bind people together.
And even if people mostly cheer for athletes from their own country, it can be seen as a safe outlet for nationalist feelings, that bind a country together without turning to racism, for example.
the life story of a person written by someone else
He wrote a biography of Winston Churchill.
I found Orwell's biography so I bought it.
connected with the natural processes of living things
the biological sciences
Paul always knew that the Watsons weren't his biological parents.
the scientific study of living things
human biology
marine biology
molecular biology
My favourite subject is biology.
an animal that has wings and feathers, and is usually able to fly
caged/wild birds
sea birds
Most birds lay eggs in the spring.
We watched a flock of birds fly over the field.
I saw lots of birds in the trees.
the time when a baby is born
He weighed four kilos at birth.
What's your date of birth?
The application form will ask for your place of birth.
It begins with the birth of his sister Margana and ends with his death.
When a woman or an animal gives birth, she produces a baby from her body.
She gave birth to twins.
The most important person in my life is the person who gave birth to me, my mother.
born in a particular place or having parents with a particular nationality
I grew up in Paris, but I'm Italian by birth.
I am an eighteen year old college student and I am Portuguese by birth.
the beginning of something
the birth of modern science
Pericles was the man who achieved the birth of democracy.
the day on which someone was born, or the same date each year
Happy birthday!
She is celebrating her 70th birthday.
Is she having a birthday party?
I'm making her a birthday cake.
I have just had a birthday.
a small, flat cake that is dry and usually sweet
chocolate/ginger biscuits
a packet of biscuits
We had tea and biscuits at 3.30 p.m.
We ate biscuits and we drank juice.
a small amount or piece of something
Would you like a bit of chocolate?
The glass smashed into little bits.
There were bits of paper all over the floor.
She tries to do a bit of exercise every day.
Please come with old clothes and a bit of green paint.
slightly
The dress is a bit too big for me.
That was a bit silly, wasn't it?
I'm a bit nervous.
I'm a bit hungry - is there any food?
It's a bit like a Swiss chalet.
I'd like to walk or do any other sport, because I am a bit fat.
a lot
He does quite a bit of travelling.
She's quite a bit older than him.
We spent quite a bit of time going along the beach.
a short period of time
I'll see you in a bit.
I'm just going out for a bit. See you later.
I had my breakfast, I went to buy the newspaper and then I came back to my house to rest for a bit.
a change, fool, problem, etc., but not an important or serious one
I am a bit of a romantic.
It was a bit of a shock.
I'm a bit of a computer maniac, so I've always wanted to experience the making of computer programmes.
gradually
She saved up the money, bit by bit.
This film is full of tension as the truth is only revealed bit by bit.
small things or jobs which are not connected or not very important
We've packed most of it up now, there are just a few bits and pieces left.
So, it's memories that make us keep odd bits and pieces.
to cut something using your teeth
He bit into the apple.
I was bitten on the leg by a dog.
A snake bit me on my leg, but that's ok.
a piece taken from food when you bite it
She took a bite from her pizza.
When Alice took a bite out of the cake, something hard touched her teeth.
an injury caused when an animal or insect bites you
mosquito bites
As far as your question about our sleeping is concerned, I wouldn't mind either staying in rooms or tents, but since you ask me to express my preference, I would suggest staying in rooms, in order to avoid insect bites.
a small meal
I just want to grab a bite to eat.
I had a bite at Laura's house.
It all went smoothly until 2 o'clock when they stopped for a break and a bite to eat.
with an unpleasantly sharp taste
a bitter flavour/taste
And due to these bizarre situations I went through as a little boy, everything related to shopping seems like a bitter liquid which I'm forced to drink.
angry and upset because of something bad that has happened that you cannot forget
I feel very bitter about my childhood and the way I was treated.
She'd suffered terribly over the years but it hadn't made her bitter.
What can be more real that when your lover is gone or taken away your own soul is also alone, bitter and dark and there is nothing else than feelings of revenge, anger, frustration and sadness?
full of hate or anger
a bitter argument/dispute
Every time they met, a bitter feeling of hatred bloomed in her throat.
making you feel very disappointed
Failing the final exams was a bitter disappointment for me.
She learnt through bitter experience that he was not to be trusted.
Now, I've already recovered from this bitter experience.
extremely cold
a bitter wind
to/till/until the bitter end
Wrap up warmly - it's bitter outside.
If you do something to/till/until the bitter end, you continue it until it is finished, although it is difficult and takes a long time.
I was determined to go on until the bitter end.
We are willing to talk and find alternatives to the situation, but we are also ready to fight till the bitter end to stand for our rights.
very strange and unusual
a bizarre situation
bizarre behaviour
Things are sometimes quite bizarre, aren't they?
being the darkest colour there is, like the colour of coal or of a very dark night
black shoes
Lisa gave me a black t-shirt.
Someone who is black has the dark skin typical of people from Africa.
black culture
black Americans
Britain is a multi-ethnic society, with many black and Asian people.
the colour of coal or of the sky on a very dark night
She always dresses in black.
The colours I want to use are black, white, red and blue.
a large board with a dark surface that a teacher writes on with chalk
She wrote her name on the blackboard.
when someone forces you to do something or to pay them money, by saying they will tell another person something that you want to keep secret
She was charged with blackmail.
She knows exactly how to handle him, seducing him, accusing him of ingratitude or using emotional blackmail.
to force someone to do something by using blackmail
They used the photographs to blackmail her into spying for them.
It's all over, but she is blackmailing me.
the flat part on a knife or similar tool or weapon, with a very thin edge used for cutting
a sword with a steel blade
Suddenly she felt the blade on her neck and she screamed in panic.
to say or think that someone or something is responsible for something bad which has happened
Don't blame me if you miss the bus!
Many people blame him for Tony's death.
Hugh blames his lack of confidence on his mother.
You can't really blame Helen for not wanting to get involved.
She thought that I would blame her so she decided to write me a letter.
to be responsible for something bad which has happened
Poor housing is to blame for many of their health problems.
used to say that you understand and accept the reason for what someone is doing
"I think I'll go home early." "I don't blame you - you look really tired."
when people say or think that someone or something is responsible for something bad
The manager should take the blame for the team's defeat.
They put the blame on faulty equipment.
His employers have accepted blame for the accident.
She thought that I would blame her so she decided to write me a letter.
If food is bland, it does not have much taste.
The soup was a bit bland.
In the evenings they usually attended boring dinner parties, where bland, soggy food was served, and the other guests were at least 20 years older than her and rather snobbish and stiff.
not interesting or exciting
bland statements
Peeping through the viewer she focused her gaze on the bland face of the man outside.
empty or clear, or containing no information or mark
a blank sheet of paper
a blank page
a blank tape/computer screen
Sign your name in the blank space at the bottom of the form.
We must bring a pencil and blank paper.
If your mind goes blank, you suddenly cannot remember or think of something.
When she asked me his name, my mind just went blank.
My mind went blank, I couldn't utter a word.
showing no feeling or understanding
a blank expression
The old woman froze, her blank gaze staring in Leila's direction.
a thick, warm cover that you sleep under
She put an extra blanket on the bed.
I think I'll buy some new pillows, a duvet and a warm blanket.
a thick layer of something
a blanket of cloud/snow
I do remember it rained heavily and the sky was covered with a blanket of grey.
If a situation is bleak, there is little or no hope for the future.
The future is looking bleak for small businesses struggling with debts.
This may seem like a very bleak future for many young people today.
If a place is bleak, it is cold, empty and not attractive.
a bleak landscape
They lack basic training and experience and thus often get lost or hurt in bleak and isolated areas, giving the mountain rescue teams a hard time.
to lose blood
Your arm is bleeding.
He was bleeding heavily.
When I arrived, he was on the ground bleeding and with his arm broken.
a combination of two or more things
Their music is a blend of jazz and African rhythms.
I suppose this is a blend of entertainment and the darker sides of human nature, like envy or curiosity.
not able to see
She's been blind since birth.
He started to go blind in his sixties.
She told him she was blind and she couldn't find her dog.
to choose to ignore something that you know is wrong or illegal
Restaurant staff often took food home, and their boss turned a blind eye.
Nevertheless, we can't turn a blind eye to this reality.
to not notice something, or not want to notice something
Drivers who speed are often blind to the risks they cause.
Not only is she completely oblivious of his inner feelings and thoughts, but she also seems to be blind to what is going on around her.
people who are blind
He went to a school for the blind.
I write from 'Helpers', an Uruguayan Enterprise specialized in selling products for both the blind and the mute, and whose offerings your Company in Britain is interested in selling.
the state of being blind
In its later stages the disease causes blindness.
Apart from his blindness, his health has worsened in general.
the state of not noticing something, or not wanting to notice or understand it
My blindness to what was happening led me to make a bad decision.
His mother and Mister Hooper, with their blindness and insensitivity, do not see what is going on between the two boys.
to open and close both of your eyes quickly
You've got something in your eye - try blinking a few times.
Her eyes were blinking as she was looking at the bright sunlight outside the window.
extremely quickly
In the blink of an eye, he was gone.
And for all those who keep nagging about losing their favourite regular programmes during such an event, be patient: TV routine will be back into your living rooms in the blink of an eye.
a painful, raised area of skin with liquid inside, that you get if your skin has been rubbed or burned, or a similar area on a painted surface
I've got a blister on my toe.
Some people weren't really walking any more. The blisters and aching muscles gave them too much stress.
a large building containing many apartments or offices
a block of flats
I drove to a block of flats.
the distance along a street from where one road crosses it to the place where the next road crosses it, or one part of a street like this, especially in a town or city
The museum is just six blocks away.
My friend and I live on the same block.
I'd have liked to go to the one which is four blocks away but the other guys didn't want to.
a solid piece of hard material, usually in the shape of a square or rectangle
a block of ice/stone/wood
It is like an enormous block of stone!
something that makes it difficult to move or make progress
His personality is a major block to reaching an agreement.
Lack of money has been the main stumbling block.
Very often students are asked to present a certain subject, but the main stumbling block is that they are not given the knowledge of how to do it properly.
to prevent movement through something
A fallen tree is blocking the road.
It took over three hours because there was a car accident and the street was blocked for two hours.
to be between someone and the thing they are looking at, so that they cannot see
A pillar was blocking my view.
You cannot have a panoramic view of the mountains any more because buildings block it and the people in the nearby village think only of profit.
to stop something from happening or making progress
The council has blocked plans for a new supermarket.
a record of your activities or opinions that you put on the Internet for other people to read and that you change regularly
There are two or three blogs that I read on a daily basis.
to write or add material to a blog
He blogs about living with the disease.
someone who writes a blog
Bloggers everywhere are commenting on the issue.
with pale yellow hair
blonde hair
Peter is tall with blonde hair.
the red liquid that flows around your body
a blood test/sample
He lost a lot of blood in the accident.
You can give blood at the local hospital.
I opened the door and screamed - in front of me was a man standing with hands covered in blood.
new people in an organization who will provide new ideas and energy
We need some new blood in the organization.
It will give new opportunities to new generations and thus will provide new blood in the different organisations.
in a cruel way, without showing any emotion
He shot three policemen in cold blood.
Returning to the story, when I arrived, I went directly to Hillton Avenue where I should have met 005, but when I arrived at the meeting point I found him lying on the floor with two shots in his back; he had been murdered in cold blood.
the family or place that you come from
I've got some Spanish blood in me.
I have a background in my blood which, I believe, explains my way of thinking: my mother is Dutch and my father is half from Alsace, half from Hungary.
If something makes your blood run cold, it frightens you very much.
I heard a tapping on the window which made my blood run cold.
This thought scared me and made my blood run cold.
to make you extremely angry
The way they have treated those people makes my blood boil.
Paul said something repulsive, with a cold light in his eyes, and it made her blood boil.
a member of your family
I can't hate him - he's my own flesh and blood.
On the other hand, another problem old people have to face is a feeling of not being useful to society and what proves this is that they are put into old people's homes even by their own flesh and blood.
covered in blood
a bloody nose
The police found a bloody knife under his pillow.
violent and involving a lot of blood and injuries
a bloody war
About 50,000 Romans died during this bloody battle, including the famous Roman Commander Varus.
used to express anger or to emphasize what you are saying in a slightly rude way
I can't find my bloody keys!
'Rachel? Start the car!' the trench coat ordered. 'What?' 'Start the bloody car!'
If the wind blows, it moves and makes currents of air.
The wind was blowing harder every minute.
Sometimes a cool wind blows, and Bodrum is like heaven with many handsome boys, different kinds of shops, fresh air and clear sea.
to force air out through your mouth
She blew on her coffee before taking a sip.
to clear your nose by forcing air through it into a piece of paper or cloth
He blew his nose loudly.
to make a sound by forcing air out of your mouth and through an instrument
Ann blew a few notes on the trumpet.
We were all waiting for the referee to blow his whistle.
I had never played an instrument before, but when I put the flute to my mouth and blew, it was as though I had played it all my life and that it had always been mine.
If you blow it or blow your chance, you lose an opportunity to do something by doing or saying the wrong thing.
Tom blew his chances of getting the job by arriving late for the interview.
I'm giving you one last chance. If you blow it, you'll be sent to an Institution which treats people like you.
If something blows your mind, you are very excited or surprised by it.
There was one scene in the film that really blew my mind.
'MOMO', written by Michael Ende, is a book that blew my mind as a child and as an adult, I have read it many times, but the last time has been a while now.
a hard hit with a hand or a weapon
They think his death was caused by a blow to the head with an iron bar.
He was really starting to panic when he felt a hard blow to his head.
an unexpected event that has a damaging effect on someone or something
Losing his job was a severe blow to his confidence.
Douglas, due to his callousness or because it had been too great a blow for him, was unable to understand or assimilate the fact, so he just went on, doing his duty to his country and his people as before.
being the same colour as the sky when there are no clouds
a dark/light/pale blue jacket
She has big blue eyes.
I like her long brown hair and blue eyes.
sad
I was feeling blue.
Do you feel the need to dress, behave and consume the same products as your friends? Are you the kind of person who goes shopping when you feel blue or a little morose?
a blue colour
There's a lot of blue in this room.
I want my bedroom to be painted in yellow and blue.
If something happens out of the blue, it is completely unexpected.
One day, out of the blue, she announced that she was leaving.
Dear Kim, I was extremely happy when I received your letter out of the blue.
not sharp
a blunt knife
Standing in front of me was a huge man whose skin was roughened by blunt razor blades.
saying exactly what you think without caring about people's feelings
a blunt letter
She knows what kind of questions the viewers want answered and asks them without being rude or blunt.
to become pink in the face, usually from embarrassment
He blushes every time she speaks to him.
I blush to think what a fool I made of myself.
But there is one special "embarrassing moment" that even today I blush when I think about it.
a surface on the wall of a classroom that a teacher writes on
Copy the sentences from the board.
a piece of wood, plastic, etc. on a wall where information can be put
I stuck the notice up on the board.
The information is posted on the information board, and the class is every Monday from 5pm to 7pm.
a flat piece of wood, cardboard, etc. for playing games on
a chess board
I got a chess board, Harry Potter and the Order of Phoenix, some photo frames, wall hangings and a lot of other gifts.
on a boat, train, aircraft, etc.
There were 230 people on board the plane.
After I checked in, I was on board.
a flat piece of wood, plastic, etc. used for a particular purpose
Cut the vegetables on a chopping board.
an ironing board
There was a 'For Sale' board outside the house.
meals that are provided when you stay in a hotel
How much is a single room with full/half board?
You are likely to have full board accommodation and a single room.
a group of people who officially control a company or organization, or a particular type of business activity
the Tourist Board
The board approved the sales plan.
We will try to get a subsidy during the next Board of Directors meeting.
to understand or accept an idea or a piece of information
Banks need to take on board the views of their customers.
The students feel that if the above suggestions were taken on board, the study centre could be an excellent support for them in their studies.
happening or having an effect on people at every level and in every area
The improvement has been across the board, with all divisions reporting increased profits.
Children in separate schools get on with things regardless of it being work for boys or girls, which can be quite positive especially in today's lifestyles where chores are done across the board.
to get onto or allow people to get onto a boat, train or aircraft
At London airport she boarded a plane to Australia.
Will passengers waiting to board please go to the ticket counter?
We all boarded the train.
a game such as chess that is played on a board
It rained all day so we played lots of board games.
I got board games like`Monopoly' and`Scotland Yard' as presents.
to talk with too much pride about what you have done or what you own
He didn't talk about his exam results in case people thought he was boasting.
Parents enjoy boasting about their children's achievements.
They boasted that they had never lost a single game.
Later that evening I went home boasting about my success.
If a place boasts something good, it has it.
New York boasts some of the best museums in the world.
The park boasts a picturesque lake with swans and ducks and a walled formal garden.
a vehicle for travelling on water
a rowing/sailing boat
Are you travelling by boat?
We can go there by boat.
to do or say something that changes a situation in a way that causes problems
They seemed very happy and I didn't want to rock the boat.
But let's not rock the boat. Our preposterous cravings and wishes might become our downfall.
to be in the same unpleasant situation as other people
She complains that she doesn't have enough money, but we're all in the same boat.
Unemployment and its consequences is still a major problem. Now we are in the same boat.
to be too late to get what you want
I'm afraid you've missed the boat. All the concert tickets have been sold.
What if she never had another chance? What if she missed the boat? Overcome by the anxiety and the lack of sleep, the first thing she did in the morning was to pick up two of her best poems and put them in an envelope.
the whole physical structure that forms a person or animal
A good diet and plenty of exercise will help you to keep your body healthy.
She rubbed sun lotion over her entire body.
I think swimming is good for my body.
a dead person
A body was washed up on the beach last week.
I cried a lot next to his cold body.
the main part of a person's or animal's body, without the head, arms and legs
The dog had a thin body and short legs.
There was a black spider with long legs and a fat round body near my head.
an official group of people who work together
the sport's regulatory body
This progress is also facilitated by companies and organisations that are represented in many countries, institutions that tend to be controlled by centrally defined policies or a single governing body.
to be able to pay for your food, clothing and somewhere to live
His wages are barely enough to keep body and soul together.
Not only does he keep body and soul together, but he is on good terms with his wife.
used to emphasize that someone does something with all their effort and energy
They entered into the relationship body and soul.
If nowadays women are, for the vast majority, working, it occurs to me that some of them are not willing to devote themselves body and soul to their work.
If a liquid boils, or if you boil it, it reaches the temperature where bubbles rise up in it and it produces steam.
I had to boil the water before drinking it.
First he saw his mother cooking and she was chopping the vegetables with her hands, after that she started to boil the water with her own body heat, just puting her hand next to the cup.
If a container of liquid boils, or if you boil it, it reaches the temperature where bubbles rise up in it and it produces steam.
Could you boil the kettle for me?
The pan's boiling.
to cook food in water that is boiling
Boil the potatoes until soft.
I teach them how to swim, how to boil rice without electrical equipment and so on.
to make you extremely angry
The way they have treated those people makes my blood boil.
Paul said something repulsive, with a cold light in his eyes, and it made her blood boil.
cooked in water that is boiling
boiled potatoes
We ordered pork chops, boiled potatoes, greens, and apple pie.
very hot
It's boiling in this room!
It's boiling hot outside.
I wouldn't like a job like that, especially in the summer, when it's boiling hot.
strong in colour or shape and therefore easy to notice
bold colours/letters
It had some advertisements and I could read something written in bold words.
not frightened of taking risks
She was a bold and fearless climber.
It was a bold decision to go and live abroad.
The newspaper made the bold move/took the bold step of publishing the names of the men involved.
That was the punishment for being bold!
in a way that is brave or very confident
The President had already boldly declared victory.
One boldly ventures where none of their family members have been before in search of a better lifestyle, good weather...
a weapon that explodes and causes damage
The bomb exploded/went off near a busy market.
a nuclear bomb
a car bomb
A bomb had exploded and that boy rescued me from the accident.
to attack a place using bombs
This pub was bombed a few years ago.
Houses had been bombed during the war and nothing was reconstructed.
a person who uses bombs
Rajiv Gandhi is believed to have been killed by a suicide bomber.
an aircraft that drops bombs
He flew bombers in the war.
During the war... the terror of the German bombers, the sound of destruction all around, bombs exploding, people crying and dying.
an attack or several attacks using bombs
The city came under heavy bombing.
In fact, despite the number of plane accidents and bombing attempts on aeroplanes, it is the safest way to travel.
an interest, experience, or feeling that makes people feel connected
the bond between the mother and baby
There is a close/strong bond between the brothers.
We formed a strong bond in this difficult period.
A love of opera created a bond between them.
The strong bond among the family members makes them feel secure and confident.
to develop a strong relationship with someone
Physical contact helps a mother bond with her baby.
Another aspect is the fact that it is far more easier to just spend money on your children than to actually bond with them.
one of the hard pieces that make the structure inside a human or animal
human/animal bones
There's still a lot of meat left on the bone - shall I slice some off for you?
I saw things like dinosaur bones, mummies, etc.
something that people argue about
Housework is a major bone of contention in our house.
Another bone of contention over the issue is that of pension schemes for it can't be denied that solutions have to be found to raise funds.
another pleasant thing in addition to something you were expecting
I love the job, and it's an added bonus that it's so close to home.
Think about this: we will be practising English every day and as a bonus we'll have staff discounts on books and CDs.
an extra amount of money that you are given, especially because you have worked hard
a Christmas bonus
My employer said if I pass my exam, he will give me a bonus of fifty pounds.
a set of pages fastened together inside a cover for people to read
I've read all his books.
She wrote a book about the island's history.
I bought a book on/about Glasgow.
When he finishes work, he goes to a pub, he has a beer and he reads a book.
a set of pages fastened together in a cover and used for writing on
an address book
I lost my address book last week.
to do something exactly as the rules tell you
If you want to get permission for the building, you'll need to do everything by the book.
The upper-class people always do things by the book, follow the rules and the conventions and therefore are stand-offish and cold.
If you are in someone's good books, they are pleased with you, and if you are in their bad books, they are angry with you.
I'm in Mum's good books at the moment for passing my exams.
She always admired him so much and wanted to be in his good books.
a set of stamps, tickets, etc. that are fastened together inside a cover
I bought a book of stamps.
You can get a book of ten tickets for the ferry.
to arrange to use or do something at a particular time in the future
She'd booked a table for two at their favourite restaurant.
You need to book a seat on the train to Edinburgh.
Book early/in advance to get a good room.
The hotel is fully booked for the next three weeks.
Don't forget to book in advance because, as you can imagine, everyone goes away from the city during the Summer holiday!
a piece of furniture with shelves for putting books on
We need a new bookcase.
I left my passport at your house in the living-room on the bookcase, and my flight will be tomorrow evening, so I can't get my plane If I don't have it.
an arrangement you make to have a hotel room, tickets, etc. at a particular time in the future
advance booking
If it's a problem for you, just phone me and I can change my booking.
a small, thin book that contains information
The tourist office has booklets about the area.
I would really appreciate it if you could send me a booklet describing all outdoor and indoor activities.
a way of marking an Internet website so that you can find it easily
Add this website to your bookmarks.
to mark an Internet website on your computer so that you can find it easily
I've bookmarked the page.
a shelf that you put books on
There's a bookshelf above our bed.
There are many books on my bookshelf.
a shop where books are sold
There are so many bookshops in town.
We will meet in front of the new bookshop.
something that makes you feel more confident and happy, or that helps something increase or improve
Passing my driving test was such a boost to my confidence.
The lowering of interest rates will give a much-needed boost to the economy.
It really gave us a boost!
to improve or increase something
The theatre managed to boost its audiences by cutting ticket prices.
Share prices were boosted by reports of the President's recovery.
Getting the job had really boosted her confidence.
It would not only boost my self-confidence but also look very good on my CV.
a strong shoe that covers your foot and part of your leg
a pair of boots
walking boots
You should wear old clothes and a pair of boots.
a closed space at the back of a car for putting things in
I'll put your luggage in the boot.
If you need to, you can carry lots of heavy or large things easily in the boot of your car.
the line that divides one country from another
Were you stopped at the border?
The train crosses the border between France and Spain.
We could visit the mountains near the Czech and German border.
feeling tired and unhappy because something is not interesting or because you have nothing to do
It was a cold, wet day and the children were bored.
We were bored stiff in those lessons.
He was getting bored with/of doing the same thing every day.
I really like my Game Boy because I can play when I'm bored.
not interesting or exciting
a boring job/lecture
The movie was so boring I fell asleep.
My party was boring without you.
When a person or animal is born, they come out of their mother's body and start to exist.
Ellen was born in 1984.
Archie was born in Melbourne.
She was born two months ago.
If an idea is born, it starts to exist.
The idea for the business was born during a holiday in France.
The idea was born while he was having a bath!
to get or receive something from someone with the intention of giving it back after a period of time
I've borrowed some CDs from Mike.
She used to borrow money and not bother to pay it back.
I think that I can borrow the stereo player from my brother.
to get money from a bank or financial organization and pay it back over a period of time
We had to borrow heavily to set up the business.
Some even borrow from loan sharks just to satisfy impulse shopping needs, which may eventually lead to building up debts to an individual or his family.
someone who is responsible for employees and tells them what to do
I'll ask my boss if I can leave work early tomorrow.
I need it back because the boss said he would call me on the mobile if I got the job.
always telling other people what to do
a bossy older sister
Granny is the problem - she's a bit bossy!
used to talk about two people or things
Both my parents are teachers.
They have two grown children, both of whom live abroad.
She has written two novels, both of which have been made into television series.
Both Mike and Jim have red hair/Mike and Jim both have red hair.
I loved them both/I loved both of them.
The problem with both of these proposals is that they are hopelessly impractical.
Are both of us invited, or just you?
Both men and women have complained about the advertisement.
I think it's important to listen to both sides of the argument.
I like both pop and jazz.
to have the advantages of two different situations
Living in the country and working in the city you have the best of both worlds.
Only those that can afford to live in the suburban areas can combine the best of both worlds and they tend to be rather affluent.
to annoy or cause problems for someone
I'm sorry to bother you, but could you direct me to the station?
I didn't want to bother her with work matters on her day off.
Carol, I'm sorry to bother you but I forgot my note book in your bedroom last night.
to make someone feel worried or upset
Does it bother you that he's out so much of the time?
It bothers me that he doesn't seem to notice.
Living on my own has never bothered me.
I don't care if he doesn't come - it doesn't bother me.
Then I want to mention that there is one thing that bothers me a lot.
to make the effort to do something
He hasn't even bothered to write.
Don't bother making the bed - I'll do it later.
You'd have found it if you'd bothered looking.
You won't get any credit for doing it, so why bother?
TV is entertaining, and it's all digested for you: you don't need to bother thinking after a long day's work.
If you can't be bothered to do something, you are too lazy or tired to do it.
I can't be bothered to iron my clothes.
It woke me up but I didn't answer it, I couldn't be bothered.
If you are bothered about something, it is important to you and you are worried about it.
He's very bothered about what people think of him.
They were an hour late and she didn't seem at all bothered.
I'm also bothered about what's going on around me.
a container for liquids, usually made of glass or plastic, with a narrow top
a wine bottle
a bottle of beer/whisky
Plastic bottles are lighter than glass ones.
You must take a bottle of water because you will be thirsty.
the lowest part of something
He stood at the bottom of the stairs and called up to me.
Extra information can be found at the bottom of the page.
One of the most amazing places we visited was a small lake at the bottom of a huge mountain.
the flat surface on the lowest side of something
There was a label on the bottom of the box.
On the bottom of the box I found a card saying "MARRY ME...
the lowest position in a group, organization, etc.
At school, Einstein was at the bottom of his class.
the ground under a river, lake, or sea
The ship had sunk to the bottom of the sea.
It gives me great pleasure to go and see all the beautiful kinds of fish in the modern aquarium, which shows you the wonderful world that exists at the bottom of the ocean.
the part of a road or area of land that is furthest from where you are
They live at the bottom of our street.
The apple tree at the bottom of the garden has lots of fruit.
She could hear a sort of sad cat's voice from the bottom of the garden.
the part of your body that you sit on
She slipped and fell on her bottom.
There were two people holding my arms and the third one on the ladder below me holding my bottom.
the most important fact in a situation
The bottom line is that people's health is at risk if they smoke.
The bottom line is that the adults of today have to stop for a second and think about what they are doing.
completely
I've searched the house from top to bottom and still can't find it.
Very often we can see someone in black, from top to bottom, or in white.
to (cause to) move up or away after hitting a surface
The ball bounced off the post and into the net.
She bounced the ball quickly.
to move somewhere in a happy and energetic way
Sarah bounced into the room with a big smile on her face.
Would you like to wear balloon clothes and bounce around the world?
certain to do something, or certain to happen
You're bound to feel nervous before your driving test.
If you're stressed for a long period, it's bound to affect your health.
I'm bound to feel nervous.
travelling towards a particular place
He was on a train bound for Berlin.
The only risk you run is getting on a bus bound for Boras, so take care you avoid this one.
closely connected with something
A country's culture is bound up with its language and history.
It's just the way of the world, I will have to say, and convince myself that I am not as inextricably bound up with that particular diary.
a line that divides two areas or forms an edge around an area
The mountains mark the boundary between the two countries.
This gives youngsters the opportunity to exchange opinions with people all over the world, and so the boundaries of the countries or the continents have less meaning.
a limit
Such violence is beyond the boundaries of civilized conduct.
This is a movie that reminds us that a man's soul cannot be measured with a measuring tape, that passion knows no boundaries, and that love accepts no defeat.
a knot with two curved parts and two loose ends, that is used to tie shoes or as decoration
The present was wrapped in gold paper and tied with a big red bow.
He saw a big black bow on the handle of the door.
a piece of curved wood with string fixed to both ends, used for shooting arrows
a bow and arrows
The bow was very beautiful and there were some letters on it: Artemis. He could not believe it, he had the bow of Artemis.
a long, thin piece of wood with hair stretched between the ends, used to play some musical instruments
a violin bow
The feeling was, moreover, enhanced by his unique style, as for instance with the guitar solo on "Dazed and confused", played with a violin bow.
a round, deep dish used for holding soup and other food
a bowl of soup
a soup/cereal/salad/sugar bowl
Sift the flour and baking powder into a mixing bowl.
We also used to complain about the fact that we had to have a bowl of soup every single day.
a square or rectangular container
a cardboard box
a box of chocolates
I got clothes and a box of chocolates.
a small square on a page that gives you information or where you write information
Choose an adjective from the box to complete each sentence.
If you would like more information, tick this box.
a sport in which two competitors fight by hitting each other with their hands
Many doctors believe that boxing is too dangerous and should be banned.
He's a former world heavyweight boxing champion.
You can do gym, boxing, squash, and tennis.
a male child or young man
a teenage boy
You've been a very naughty boy!
All right, boys and girls, quiet now!
I hope it's a boy.
a man or boy who someone is having a romantic relationship with
He's not my boyfriend - we're just good friends!
Cathy's boyfriend was a really nice guy.
Maria and her boyfriend gave me a wonderful mirror.
a piece of women's underwear that supports the breasts
She knew that I had bought my first bra without having asked her for advice.
a piece of jewellery that you wear around your wrist
a gold/silver/diamond bracelet
Actually I was very sad as the bracelet was particularly valuable to me.
either of two symbols put around a word, phrase or sentence in a piece of writing to show that what is between them should be considered as separate from the main part
square/round brackets
Biographical information is included in brackets.
a group of people whose ages, taxes, etc. are between two limits
Most heart attack victims are in the 45-65 age bracket.
The 35-49 age bracket remained constant in terms of cinema attendance and the same also with the 50+ age bracket.
the organ inside your head that controls thought, memory, feelings and activity
Doctors can measure activity in her brain.
The accident left him with permanent brain damage.
His wife died from a brain tumour.
He said the Martians opened his head and did experiments with his brain.
used to refer to intelligence
That can't possibly be the right way to do it - use your brain!
He's got brains but he's too lazy to use them.
The whole of Western society already seems to be founded on computers and relying on chips, which to a certain extent has taken away our own abilities of using our brains.
the part of a vehicle that makes it stop or move more slowly
She had no brakes on her bicycle.
It has 24 active gears and multilink kevlor brakes.
to make a vehicle stop or move more slowly
I tried to brake but it was too late.
The motorcyclist cut in dangerously, so we had to brake.
one of the many parts of a tree that grows out from its trunk
Birds often make nests in the top branches of the tree.
She slowly climbed the tree and sat on one of the biggest branches.
one of several shops, offices, etc. that are part of a company or organization
I used to work in the local branch of a large bank.
She's a branch manager.
He has come from our branch office in New York, where he worked as an assistant.
a part of a subject
Immunology is a branch of biological science.
As a matter of fact, innovations have taken place quite frequently in every branch of science.
a type of product made by a particular company
a best-selling/popular brand of toothpaste
This isn't my usual brand of deodorant.
My computer brand is Acer.
completely new
The washing machine is brand new.
Well, I've decided to buy a new TV set and a brand new sofa!
a shiny yellow metal
a door with a brass handle
The dark marble is easy to keep clean and the solid brass handles look luxurious.
the group of musical instruments made from brass
a brass band
I liked it so much that I decided to become a brass band musician myself.
showing no fear of dangerous or difficult situations
a brave soldier
It was a brave decision to leave her job and start her own business.
She was very brave to learn to ski at fifty.
Of the three organizations criticized, only one was brave to face the press.
Richards has made a brave attempt to answer his critics.
They all laughed at me, but I was brave enough to mount the horse again.
in a brave way
She faced the consequences bravely.
when someone is brave
He was awarded a medal for his bravery in battle.
Of course my bravery disappeared and I felt my heart beating faster and faster.
a basic food made by mixing flour, water and sometimes yeast
a slice of bread
a loaf of bread
white/brown bread
sliced bread
fresh/stale bread
Do you bake your own bread?
I like bread, rice and beans.
the great number of different things that someone has done, knows, is interested in, etc.
Her novels show her huge breadth of knowledge.
In my opinion, it is irresponsible to base our knowledge only on our experience and to overlook the example of all those who, with their breadth of learning, made amazing innovations and helped society.
in every part of a place
They travelled the length and breadth of Scotland together.
It is the reason that we can easily see the foreigners wandering the length and breadth of the museum being unaware of the origin of items they look at.
to separate into two or more pieces or to make something do this
The dish fell to the floor and broke.
They had to break a window to get in.
I dropped the vase and it broke into pieces.
I broke a beautiful glass.
to damage a bone in your arm/leg, etc.
Barbara slipped on the ice and broke her arm.
I'm selling my bicycle because I broke my leg.
If you break a machine, object, etc., or if it breaks, it stops working because it is damaged.
I think I've broken your camera.
I'd like a new mobile phone because the other one has broken.
to stop doing something for a short time
Let's break for lunch.
If you sit at a desk all day, try to break your routine with a walk or a swim.
I think the most important aim of a holiday is to break your daily routine.
to come to an end or make something come to an end
Eventually someone spoke, breaking the silence.
The factory brought in outside workers in an attempt to break the strike.
George was looking outside when something broke the silence.
to do something better, faster, etc. than anyone else
Usain Bolt broke the world record for the 200 metres.
I personally think that nobody will ever break his record of being champion seven times.
to not do what you should do
She agreed not to tell anyone but she has broken her promise.
I am very surprised that such a reputable theatre as yours has been able to break all the promises that appeared in the advertisement.
to do something illegal
He didn't know he was breaking the law by smoking inside the building.
Jem, the youngest brother, is a horse-thief, so he breaks the law as well, but his crime is a minor one.
to make people feel more relaxed in a social situation
I told everyone a joke, which helped to break the ice.
And, of course, don't forget that a warm smile is one of the best ways to break the ice.
to make someone feel extremely sad
She really broke his heart when she left.
It breaks my heart when I hear the terrible things that have been said about him.
I thought that the hamster would live forever but I was wrong and that mistake broke my heart.
to not make money but also not lose money
The company only managed to break even this year.
Company C does not seem to be doing well. In the year 2000, it just seems to be breaking even.
If news or a story breaks, or if someone breaks it, it becomes known by the public for the first time.
News of the scandal broke just before the election.
to tell someone about something unpleasant that has happened
Who's going to break the news to his wife?
She broke the news to his wife Helen.
to suddenly escape or become separate from something
The prisoner broke free while the guards weren't looking.
to escape from someone or something that is controlling you
She tried to break free from the social conditioning of her upbringing.
I would like to revisit there one day as it's firmly connected to my adolescence, when I struggled to break free from my peers, and tried to establish my own identity.
If a storm breaks, it starts suddenly.
The storm broke just as we reached home.
Suddenly the moon disappeared behind the clouds and, in a few moments, a violent storm broke.
If the weather breaks, it changes suddenly, and usually becomes worse.
The weather is due to break at the weekend.
to do something that is different to anything that has been done before
Their research is really breaking new ground.
Paul decided to break new ground in music no matter how long it took.
when you stop an activity for a short time, usually to rest or to eat
a coffee/lunch break
We'll take another break at 3.30.
They worked through the night without a break.
You must bring an old shirt, pencils, water and some food for the break.
a holiday or period of time away from work, school, etc.
a weekend break to Paris
He had a break for the weekend, and he called me: "I am in London, so, if you want to see me, it's the time!"
where something has separated in an accident
There's a break in the bone.
a lucky opportunity
His big break came when he was offered a part in a TV series.
Meeting Tom was my lucky break.
easy to break
That vase is breakable so be careful.
a short period of mental illness when people are too ill to continue with their normal lives
Later that year she had a breakdown.
a nervous breakdown
Instead of that I almost ended up in hospital suffering a nervous breakdown.
when a vehicle or machine stops working for a period of time
I had a breakdown in the middle of the road.
On Friday we went to Scotland but unfortunately we had a breakdown. By chance a very nice farmer fixed our car and as it was late he suggested we should spend the night on his farm.
when something such as communication or a relationship fails or ends
a breakdown in the peace talks
Eventually, society may be affected by the breakdown of these relationships.
a short explanation of the details of something
I need a breakdown of the costs involved.
The pie charts showing the breakdown of annual spending of the school take into account money spent on insurance, teachers' salaries, furniture and equipment, resources (such as books), and other workers' salaries.
the food you eat in the morning after you wake up
What do you want for breakfast?
Have you had breakfast?
Breakfast is served in the dining room between 8.30 and 10.
You can have breakfast in my house.
an important discovery or event that helps to improve a situation or provide an answer to a problem
Scientists are hoping for a breakthrough in the search for a cure for cancer.
A major breakthrough in negotiations has been achieved.
For me the main technology breakthrough has been in computers.
either of the two soft, rounded parts of a woman's chest that produce milk after she has a baby
When a woman becomes pregnant her breasts tend to grow larger.
breast cancer
This person is so special to me because after I was born I was drinking milk from her breast.
the air that goes into and out of your lungs
Her breath smelled of garlic.
Then I felt someone's breath on my shoulder...
to be breathing quickly because you have been running, walking fast, etc.
He burst into the room, red-faced and out of breath.
I find that shopping is very good exercise too! By the time you have completed the whole High Street, you will be out of breath.
to keep air in your lungs and not let it out
How long can you hold your breath under water?
My heart was beating fast. I was holding my breath.
If something takes your breath away, you feel surprise and admiration because it is so beautiful or exciting.
The view from the window took my breath away.
The landscape just takes your breath away sometimes.
to fill your lungs with air
Take a deep breath and relax.
But if you took a deep breath after reading the question, don't worry.
to rest for a short time until you can breathe regularly again
Let's stop here and catch our breath.
Unfortunately, the rooms we stayed in were on the 4th floor. The older people couldn't catch their breath when they finally arrived there!
If you say something under your breath, you say it very quietly so that other people cannot hear it.
He was muttering curses under his breath.
"We must have taken a wrong turn somewhere..." he kept muttering under his breath.
in an excited or anxious way
I waited with bated breath as the results were read out.
Nevertheless, a huge number of scientists carrying out very useful research, and composers, actors, and artists making us watch their creations with bated breath, do not earn as much money as a lot of outstanding sportsmen do.
someone or something that is new, different, and exciting
Having Eve around has been a breath of fresh air.
The final suggestion is focused on building a leisure centre. Should this be everything the Town Council has promised, it will bring a breath of fresh air.
to wait for something to happen, often feeling anxious
While the leaders negotiated, the world held its breath.
They, the critics, the fans and friends and his wife, held their breath and crossed their fingers, hoping to once again hear his enchanting voice.
to take air into and out of your lungs
It's so airless in here - I can hardly breathe.
Breathe in and now breathe out.
Keep breathing deeply.
The air you will breathe is cleaner than the air in the city.
very beautiful or surprising
breathtaking scenery/views
For me it is a very beautiful country, with amazing and breathtaking scenery.
to keep animals for the purpose of producing young animals
His main income comes from breeding cattle.
We can keep animals, breed them, observe, and protect them.
to cause something to develop, especially something bad
He believes that movies like this breed violence.
The question arises: who is right - those who love and cherish history or those for whom the above-mentioned familiarity breeds contempt?
a type of dog, sheep, etc.
This rare breed of sheep is particularly good for wool.
What's your favourite breed of dog/dog breed?
After she had seen pictures of the show animals, she decided to buy a small male kitten of the Cornish rex breed.
a light and pleasant wind
a cool breeze
She let the gentle breeze cool her face.
It was not that hot and we had a cool breeze as we cycled downhill.
money or a present given to someone so that they will do something for you, usually something dishonest
The politician was accused of accepting bribes from businessmen.
Because we don't like to wait, it is very common to jump in the queues or give bribes to people in charge.
to try to make someone do something for you by giving them money, presents or something else they want
He bribed immigration officials and entered the country illegally.
She considers presents to be a means of bribing her in order to love you.
when someone is offered money or a present so that they will do something, usually something dishonest
bribery and corruption
They treat bribery as something natural - as it was in the last political system.
a small, hard, rectangular block used for building walls and houses
a brick wall
Future homes might not be built out of bricks at all!
a woman who is getting married
He returned from New York with his lovely new bride.
The bride and groom posed for pictures outside the church.
The day of the wedding, I took lots of pictures of the bride and the groom.
a structure that is built over a river, road, railway, etc. to allow people and vehicles to cross from one side to the other
We drove across/over the bridge.
The Brooklyn Bridge spans the East River from Brooklyn to Manhattan.
We can see Bogaz bridge from the window.
something that connects two groups, organizations, etc. and improves the relationship between them
After the war they tried to build bridges with neighbouring countries.
It is difficult to prevent this but we must do our best to build bridges between countries.
lasting only a short time or using only a few words
His acceptance speech was very brief.
I had a brief look at her report before the meeting.
It'll only be a brief visit because we really haven't much time.
The company issued a brief statement about yesterday's accident.
Turning to the website, I could not find all the information about the films, just a brief comment about the director, which is not useful for me.
using only a few words
world news in brief
In brief, I have had a marvellous week.
for a short time
We chatted briefly about the weather.
In this essay, I shall briefly look at the advantages and disadvantages of owning a car.
strong in colour
Leslie always wears bright colours.
He said hello and I felt my face turn bright red.
I will be using bright orange for my bedroom.
full of light, shining
bright sunshine
The rooms were bright and airy.
The lights are too bright in here - they're hurting my eyes.
It was bright and sunny.
clever
They were bright children, always asking questions.
She was enthusiastic and full of bright ideas and suggestions.
Rony had the bright idea of calling the firemen.
happy or full of hope
You're very bright and cheerful this morning!
She's an excellent student with a bright future.
I think I'm a very bright kind of person, friendly with lots of energy.
to find good things in a bad situation
Look on the bright side - no one was badly hurt.
I am quite self-confident and I usually look on the bright side, as I am not keen on pessimistic thoughts.
with a lot of strong colour or light
brightly coloured clothes
a brightly lit room
The sun was shining brightly over the white mountain tops.
extremely good or enjoyable
Oh, brilliant! My parcel's arrived.
"Did you like the film?" "I thought it was brilliant."
These presents were brilliant!
extremely clever
a brilliant mathematician
He is an engineering student and he is brilliant in his studies.
full of light or colour
The sky was a brilliant blue.
It was 11:15 so I thought "they won't come" but suddenly a brilliant light bathed me.
in a very skillful way
He seems to do everything brilliantly - piano playing, skiing, sailing.
Although they are not very famous like JULIE BLOOM, they sang brilliantly.
to take someone or something with you when you go somewhere
"Shall I bring anything to the party?" "Oh, just a bottle."
Bring me that knife/Bring that knife to me.
Did you bring an umbrella with you?
Please bring old clothes with you.
to cause happiness/luck/peace, etc.
She's brought us so much happiness over the years.
Their attempts to bring peace to the region have so far proved futile.
She thought that the painting brought her bad luck but she thought that she was just talking nonsense and that it wouldn't happen again.
to make something finish
The stories in the newspaper brought her career to a sudden end.
At the end of the year 2002 a great construction was brought to an end.
to cause someone's best qualities to show
This chance to work with young people has really brought out the best in him.
TV can be a baby-sitter, but such a relationship is not going to bring out the best in a child.
If information about something bad is brought to light, it is discovered.
The trial brought to light numerous contradictions in his story.
The evening investigation which was carried out by the mysterious Inspector brought all these facts to light.
to make you feel such strong emotion that you want to cry
It was a very moving speech, and it brought a lump to my throat.
This devastating image brought a lump to John's throat.
to be in a situation where something bad is going to happen very soon
The two countries are on the brink of war.
By the end of the 21st century, Earth was on the brink of destruction. The atmosphere was polluted, the seas were poisoned, the animals were just a distant memory.
wide
We walked down a broad avenue lined with trees.
He has very broad shoulders.
a broad smile
Joss Merlyn was seven feet high, with broad, immense shoulders.
a group that includes many different things or people
The magazine covers a broad range of subjects, from sewing to psychology.
My last employer asked me to work again this summer. However, I would like to have a broad experience in different camps.
a type of Internet connection that allows large amounts of information to be sent or received very quickly
We've got broadband at home.
to send out a programme on television, radio or the Internet
Radio Caroline used to broadcast from a boat in the North Sea.
The tennis championship is broadcast live to several different countries.
Unfortunately most of the programmes that channels broadcast are not quality programmes.
to increase or make something increase and include more things or people
We need to broaden the range of services that we offer.
Travel broadens your mind.
I mentioned the fact that such a presentation would broaden his mind and help him to strengthen his position in the company.
in a general way and not including everything or everyone
The plans have been broadly accepted.
Broadly speaking, don't you think women make better drivers than men?
The car is a marvellous means of transport as far as mobility, freedom, speed and comfort are concerned but it is now broadly acknowledged that it is inappropriate for the short journeys in our big cities.
willing to accept other people's behaviour and beliefs, especially sexual behaviour
At seventy she was surprisingly broadminded.
My father is not as broadminded as my mother but I love him with all my heart.
a green vegetable with a thick stem
I had pasta with broccoli and tomatoes.
a thin book with pictures and information, usually advertising something
We looked at some holiday brochures last night.
I will send you some brochures of Switzerland, so you can choose some destinations.
damaged and separated into pieces
He attacked the man with a broken bottle.
Careful - there's broken glass on the floor.
The first thing we saw was a broken window.
an arm/leg, etc. with a damaged bone
Her little brother has a broken arm.
I stayed there for 2 weeks with a broken leg and sore ribs.
no longer able to work
My watch is broken.
My bicycle is broken.
when you are very sad because of the end of a relationship
They said she died of a broken heart.
He will split up with you and you will get a broken heart!
English/Spanish, etc. that is spoken slowly and has a lot of mistakes in it
I managed to make myself understood in broken French.
A non-English speaker may be able to talk in broken English to a native English speaker, but has only a vague idea as to what he's uttering.
a family in which the parents do not now live together
Many of these children come from broken homes.
The development of the modern society has brought with it a growing number of broken homes, divorces and economic problems which have directly affected the parent-child relationship.
a bronze medal
He won a bronze in the 200m.
I have won two bronze medals and one gold for swimming 50m.
a shiny orange-brown metal
a statue made from bronze
Each single station in the centre is worth seeing: mosaics, massive statues made of bronze, huge framed paintings.
made of bronze
a bronze statue
The water flowed from the mouth of a bronze dolphin to the small pond full of lily-pads and reeds.
being the colour of bronze
bronze skin
The world was drenched in colours. It looked as if the autumn had taken all the colours of spring and softly blended them in richly intense shades of amber, bronze and purple.
a man or boy with the same parents as another person
Do you have any brothers and sisters?
Johnny is my younger/older/big/baby/little brother.
I need to buy a book for my younger brother.
the man married to your sister or the brother of your husband or wife
It's my brother-in-law's birthday today.
being the colour of chocolate or soil
dark/light brown
Both my parents have curly brown hair.
I'm going to wear an old T-shirt and brown trousers.
a brown colour
I don't wear brown.
I'm going to paint my bedroom. I'll use soft brown.
to look through a book or magazine without reading everything, or to walk around a shop looking at several things without intending to buy any of them
I was just browsing through some fashion magazines.
"Are you looking for anything in particular, Madam?" "No, I'm just browsing."
If I want to buy a nice pair of shoes, I'll have to go into the city centre and browse around from shop to shop until I find the shoes I like.
to look at information on the Internet
It's a good site to browse.
Furthermore people read when they browse on the internet, whether for entertainment or educational and business affairs.
a computer program that makes it possible for you to read information on the Internet
a Web browser
It is important to install an Internet browser, that could be Internet Explorer, as well as the free Mozilla Firefox.
a dark area on your skin where you have been hurt
His arms and back were covered in bruises.
She had a few cuts and bruises but nothing serious.
I entered the room and saw him, covered in bruises, but I couldn't see his face because he was sleeping turned to the other side.
an object made of short pieces of stiff hair, plastic or wire fixed to a handle, which is used for cleaning, tidying hair, painting, etc.
a brush and comb
a clothes brush
a nail brush
a stiff wire brush
We need to bring a size 3 brush, a size 12 brush and a palette.
the action of using a brush
I need to give my hair a quick brush.
to use a brush to clean or tidy something
Could you brush your hair?
Brush your teeth after meals.
I really need it to brush my hair tomorrow for Katie's party.
to lightly touch someone or something as you move past
Charlotte brushed against him as she left the room.
His lips gently brushed her cheek and he was gone.
A soft, cool breeze brushed my skin.
to move something somewhere using a brush or your hand
Jackie brushed the hair out of her eyes.
He brushed away a tear.
She picked the diary up, brushed off the dust, and immediately started to read it.
very violent or cruel
a brutal murder
Can you remember the days when soccer was peaceful, harmless and all about joy? It has nothing to do with contemporary soccer, which is brutal, aggressive, and emotional.
a ball of air or gas with liquid around it
an air bubble
As a consequence the sea became polluted, and its deep blue colour turned into a dirty green, covered with bubbles!
to be full of a positive emotion or quality
The children were bubbling over with excitement.
However taking into account that students often leave class bubbling over with excitement and go straight to the canteen, the noise is a little bit loud there so I do not think this would be a good place to film.
If a liquid bubbles, balls of air or gas rise to its surface.
The soup was bubbling on the stove.
a container with an open top and a handle, often used for carrying liquids
Armed with a bucket and a mop, I started washing the floor.
I took my two-year old nephew down to the beach with his bucket and spade.
I screamed and ran out the door, when a bucket of ice cold water fell on my head!
the amount of money a person or organization has available to spend
an annual budget of £40 million
They are over/under/on/within budget.
They have a very tight budget.
Finally, as I am a student on a very tight budget I would prefer a cheap B and B or a family rather than a local campsite.
very cheap
Budget airlines have forced major airlines to lower some of their prices.
a very small insect
He'd found a bug in his bed.
Maybe you're thinking that he's a loving man who talks only about bugs and insects, but it's not true.
a bacteria or a virus causing an illness that is usually not serious
I had a tummy/stomach bug last week.
There's a bug going around.
a mistake or problem in a computer program
A bug had caused the company's computer system to crash.
For instance, the millennium bug might make all computers confused, and banks will lose money.
to make something by putting materials and parts together
They're building new houses by the river.
These old houses are built of stone.
Contractors have started building on waste land near the town.
It was built in 1880.
a person whose job it is to make buildings
Currently he's working in a hotel but in his own country he's a builder.
a structure with walls and a roof such as a house or factory, or the business of making these
beautiful old buildings
an office building
He started off in the building trade before opening his own restaurant.
I think it's an interesting place because it is the tallest building in Malaysia.
a glass object which produces light from electricity
an energy-saving light bulb
We use the bulb everywhere and for almost everything.
in large amounts
to buy in bulk
I suggest that you buy food in bulk so that you not only save money but also save time.
the largest part or most of something
He spends the bulk of his money on rent.
I have noticed that the bulk of the committee are people over forty years old.
too big and taking up too much space
bulky equipment
The problem is actually that to get access to this kind of program, one needs to buy special equipment, which is still quite expensive and bulky.
a male cow, or the male of particular animals such as the elephant or the whale
They did not see the sign by the gate saying 'Beware of the bull'.
a small, metal object that is shot from a gun
A bullet had lodged in the boy's leg.
After this, she was working for the FBI until she received a bullet in the shoulder.
to intentionally frighten someone who is smaller or weaker than you
He was bullied at school by some older boys.
She was bullied into leaving.
Nowadays, due to active bullying prevention by the schools, the children are exposed to the bad effects of bullying and how to stand up if anybody tries to bully them.
someone who intentionally frightens a person who is smaller or weaker than them
He's just a bully.
One day you accidentally kill the bully of the village with a sword you found, and you are cast out of the village.
to hurt part of your body by hitting it against something hard
I bumped my head on the shelf as I stood up.
to hit something with force
She bumped into his tray, knocking the food onto his lap.
A young man ran after the ball and bumped into her.
a raised area on your body where it has been hurt by hitting something hard
Enrique had a nasty bump on his head from when he fell down.
a round, raised area on a surface
My bike hit a bump in the road.
When people don't feel safe on the streets anymore due to the lack of speed limit signs or speed bumps on the roads, or simply traffic lights!
a bar fixed along the front or the back of a vehicle to protect it in an accident
a front/rear bumper
The cars were bumper to bumper.
a small, round cake or piece of bread
an iced bun
a hamburger bun
I was selling sweet buns and coffee in the coffee shop.
a number of things of the same type which are joined or held together
a bunch of flowers/grapes/bananas/keys
He gave me a bunch of roses.
a group of people
His friends are a nice bunch.
I met a bunch of guys there, and they were all good to me.
a number of things that are tied together
a bundle of letters/clothes
It was a bundle of papers hanging out of a hole in the ceiling.
a very energetic/nervous person
I was a bundle of nerves before the speech.
When he began to be a bundle of nerves, he understood that he had to ask her for the truth.
something difficult or unpleasant that you have to deal with or worry about
the burden of responsibility
I'd hate to be a burden to you when I'm older.
With the heavy burden of paying the high school fees already on our shoulders, why not take into consideration the idea of opening the centre to the public?
complicated rules and processes used by an organization, especially when they do not seem necessary
government bureaucracy
It was difficult because the bureaucracy proved to be extremely slow and I was all on my own suddenly.
a government or organization in which there are a lot of officials in a lot of departments
The country has a powerful bureaucracy.
In any case, the Government and bureaucracy must play a leading role in the performance of the economy.
meat or other food pressed into a round, flat shape and fried
a burger and chips
a hamburger
a veggieburger
I cut my cake and we ate pizzas, burgers and chips.
a person who illegally enters buildings and steals things
I saw someone climbing in through a window and assumed it must be a burglar.
Was it possible that a burglar was trying to break into the house?
the crime of illegally entering a building and stealing things
He was charged with burglary.
It makes the shops more secure against burglary and vandalism.
to get into a building illegally and steal things
They've been burgled twice recently.
One night she burgled my friend's home and stole the painting.
when a dead body is put into the ground
The burial took place on Monday.
After his burial, I would receive a book where all kinds of items were made explicit to me.
to (cause something to) be damaged or destroyed by fire or extreme heat
The factory burned to the ground.
She burnt his old love letters.
He dropped his cigarette and burnt a hole in his jacket.
That day, I left her on the stairs, I came back home and burnt the letter.
to be on fire, or to produce flames
The wood was wet and would not burn.
A fire was burning brightly in the fireplace.
After a while I found matches and firewood, and soon a nice warm fire was burning in the fireplace.
If you burn something that you are cooking, you cook it too much and if something you are cooking burns, it cooks too much.
Check the pizza - I think it's burning!
He burned the chicken, so we had only salad and bread.
to hurt a part of the body with fire or heat
I burnt my hand on the iron.
If I go to the beach I like to wear a swimming suit that covers all of my body because I don't want to burn my skin.
to copy music, information or images onto a CD
He's burnt all his favourite records onto a CD.
Microsoft Vista is such a complex system that there is no need for the additional programs for viewing websites, watching movies, listening to music or burning your own CDs or DVDs.
to use fuel to produce heat or energy
to burn calories/fuel
In this way, our organism is provided with oxygen which is essential in order to burn fat and produce the energy we need every day.
to work late into the night
I had to burn the midnight oil to get the essay finished.
My examinations were nearing and I was always burning the midnight oil.
on fire
A man staggered from the burning car.
I saw a burning car.
a subject or question that must be dealt with or answered quickly
Climate change is the burning issue of the day.
Dear David Gold, I am writing this letter to discuss and give my opinion on the two proposals for solving the traffic problem in Castlecross, which is widely recognised as arguably the most burning issue nowadays.
a very strong need to do something
I have no burning desire to go diving.
By travelling back to Germany in 1933 I might be able to find out where Hitler's burning ambition to rule the world stemmed from in the first place.
to break open or apart suddenly, or to make something do this
The balloon burst and frightened the children.
Suddenly the door burst open and police officers carrying guns rushed in.
If I eat any more cake I'll burst!
We had a lovely lunch there and ate so much that we nearly burst.
to be full of an emotion or quality
She was bursting with pride.
And after, they feel as fit as a fiddle, bursting with energy to go back to work.
to suddenly start burning
The car plunged down a hill and burst into flames.
When we turned it on, it burst into flames and before we could extinguish it, the fire destroyed my desk.
to put a dead body into the ground
His father was buried in the churchyard.
Apparently, no human being was walking outside and she could not even hear anything but a distant bell, certainly that of the church where they had buried poor aunt Charlotte.
to put something into a hole in the ground and cover it
The dog trotted off to bury its bone.
buried treasure
I was really frightened, so I decided to bury the money in the back garden.
to give all your attention to something
He buried himself in his work.
Miss Kenton is clearly attracted to the butler but he is equally clearly terrified of intimacy and buries himself in his work.
to move your face/head somewhere where it is hidden
She buried her face in her hands.
A seemingly courageous young man, who had stayed perfectly calm until that moment, dropped to his knees, then buried his face in the scorching sand.
a large vehicle in which people are driven from one place to another
You should take the bus if you want to see the sights.
I decided to go by bus.
You can get there by bus.
a short, thick plant with a lot of branches
a rose bush
There were so many flowers and bushes, and the water of the lake was so fresh.
to avoid talking about something difficult or embarrassing
I decided to stop beating around the bush and told him exactly what I thought of him.
Well, let's stop beating about the bush and get to the point.
wild parts of Australia or Africa where very few people live
He spent weeks wandering in the bush.
For the first three days we were walking through different types of bush that changed like in a kaleidoscope; the swampy, the dry, the barren.
the activity of buying and selling goods and services
He's in business of some description.
We decided to go into business together.
Our firm does a lot of business with overseas customers.
This new tax will put a lot of small firms out of business.
a business appointment/call/meeting
This week I have to go to Germany to do some business with one of our customers.
an organization that sells goods or services
He runs a small IT business.
The two brothers set up/started up a fashion business.
This is a horrible time to start a new job or business.
the work that you do to earn money
I'm in Baltimore on business.
I was there on business.
If something is none of someone's business, they do not need to know about it, although they want to, because it does not affect them.
I'm certainly not going to tell Lara how much money I've spent - it's none of her business!
You might think it's none of my business, but I simply have to say this.
used to tell someone in a rude way that you do not want them to ask about something private
I wish you'd just mind your own business.
Despite knowing that he was only doing what he thought was best for me, I couldn't stand him, and I often told him to mind his own business.
a man who works in business, especially if he has a high position in a company
He was a successful businessman before becoming a writer.
a woman who works in business, especially if she has a high position in a company
She is a successful businesswoman.
the place where a bus starts or ends its journey
The bus station is in the centre of town.
I will meet you at the bus station.
a place where a bus stops to allow passengers to get on and off
Wait for me at the bus stop.
The bus stop is in front of my house.
If you are busy, you are working hard, or giving your attention to a particular thing
Mum was busy in the kitchen.
The kids are busy with their homework.
She's busy writing out the wedding invitations.
I've got plenty of jobs to keep you busy.
He was too busy talking to notice us come in.
I'm sorry I haven't written before, but I've been very busy studying.
A busy place is full of activity or people.
a busy restaurant
Their house is near a very busy road.
Despite the fact that Rome is a busy city, you can find quiet places like Broccian lake and the seaside in Ostia.
In a busy period, you have a lot of things to do.
I've got a busy week ahead of me.
Have a rest - you've had a busy day.
It was a busy day.
used to introduce an added statement, usually something that is different from what you have said before
You can invite Keith to the party, but please don't ask that friend of his.
She's very hard-working but not very imaginative.
She's not only a painter but also a writer.
I think it's true, but then, I'm no expert.
There are eight rooms but the best one is my bedroom, because there are a lot of books.
used before you say why something did not happen or is not true
I was going to go to his party, but I was ill.
I'm really sorry I haven't written for so long, but I was very busy last week.
except
Everyone but Andrew knows.
This car has been nothing but trouble - it's always breaking down!
I'm free all days of the week but Monday and Wednesday.
a person who sells meat in a shop. A shop that sells meat is usually called a butcher's.
He started to work as a butcher.
to interrupt or join in a conversation or activity when the other people do not want you to
The interviewer kept butting in and wouldn't let me answer the question.
"Was it a big one, Granny?", the little girl butted in.
a pale yellow food made from cream that you put on bread or use in cooking
Have some bread and butter.
a butter dish
We have fresh farm food like butter, milk, cheese.
an insect with large, patterned wings
A butterfly landed on her sleeve for a moment.
There were lots of wild flowers and we saw some beautiful birds and butterflies.
a switch that you press to control a piece of equipment
He inserted the DVD and pressed the 'play' button.
I could have written a letter in a bottle but waiting for the answer would take a decade, now with email it's just a click of a button.
a small, round object used to fasten something, for example a shirt or coat
I did up/undid the buttons on my blouse.
It was a long dress with some square buttons on the front of it.
to get something by paying money for it
Eventually she had saved enough money to buy a small car.
They bought the house for £114,000.
He bought some flowers for his mother.
I bought my camera from a friend of mine.
I bought it five years ago.
someone who buys something expensive such as a house
He's still looking for a buyer for his house.
She had already found a buyer for the famous painting.
a feeling of excitement, energy, or pleasure
He gets a real buzz from going to the gym.
The reading groups will then create a real buzz in the community in regard to reading.
a continuous sound like a bee makes
I could hear the buzz of a fly near my ear.
I was working when I started hearing a kind of buzz, that was getting louder and louder.
to make a continuous noise like a bee
I can hear something buzzing.
They are now sitting quietly at their desks in a classroom where you can hear the flies buzz.
to be full of activity and excitement
The crowd was buzzing with excitement.
Summer was getting into full swing and the city was buzzing with activity.
used to show the person or thing that does something
She was examined by a doctor.
We were amazed by what she told us.
I'm reading some short stories (written) by Chekhov.
The book was translated by a well-known author.
You have to read the "House of terror" by Constanza Vanges, which is about strange things that start happening in a house.
used to show how something is done
They travelled across Europe by train/car.
She did the decorating (all) by herself.
Do you wish to be paid in cash or by cheque?
He learned English by listening to the radio.
You can go there by bus.
not later than; at/on or before
She had promised to be back by five o'clock.
The application must be in by August 31st.
Please come tomorrow by 3 o'clock in the afternoon to paint my bedroom.
used when you say something new or on a different subject
I think we've discussed everything we need to - by the way, what time is it?
Oh, by the way, my name's Julie.
By the way, I want to buy a raincoat for my brother.
near or next to something or someone
A small child stood by her side.
I'll meet you by the post office.
We'll meet by the cinema at 7.00 pm.
as a result of an accident, mistake, etc.
I went to the wrong room by mistake.
I was putting my shopping bags on the table and I pushed it by mistake.
done or made by a person instead of a machine
This sweater has to be washed by hand.
holding a particular part of someone or something
She grabbed me by the arm.
by a great amount
They are by far the best students in the class.
I have travelled to many countries, but New Zealand is by far the best.
so that you can remember all of something
We had to learn the whole poem off by heart.
I know all his songs by heart and I was singing all the time.
used in particular phrases to mean 'gradually' or 'in units of'
Day by day he grew stronger.
The weather gets warmer and warmer day by day and noone misses the rain and the severe cold of winter.
used to show measurements or amounts
twelve by ten metres of floor space
Interest rates have been increased by 0.25%.
I'm paid by the hour.
Copies have sold by the million.
Therefore you will see that this festival attracts people by the truckload.
as said by a lot of people
The party was, by all accounts, a great success.
I have known Michael Van Cleef for over two decades now, and he is, by all accounts, an exemplary worker.
in general
By and large, people have welcomed the changes.
By and large, it is clear that we all enjoy some kind of sport.
If you have to do something by law, it is illegal not to do it.
They have to provide a contract by law.
Swedish organisations and companies are forced by law to put forward programmes for employing more women and improving their conditions.
as a type of something
He sent me some flowers by way of apology.
The Academy however provided nothing whatsoever by way of entertainment, though with a group of interesting young people and a little imagination this should not be a problem.
to do something exactly as the rules tell you
If you want to get permission for the building, you'll need to do everything by the book.
The upper-class people always do things by the book, follow the rules and the conventions and therefore are stand-offish and cold.
used to ask in a polite way whether something is possible or true
You're not Spanish by any chance, are you?
I pick up the phone "Hello, Nick have you by any chance got, or seen, my diary?
because of something
She succeeded by virtue of hard work rather than talent.
However, you should take into consideration the expenses, which might be exorbitant by virtue of the fact that you intend to create places with a beautiful ambience and a wide range of comforts offered that will facilitate residents' lives.
something that you say when you are agreeing to let someone do something
I have a copy of the report on my desk. By all means have a look at it.
The kitchen utensils stay next to the sink. You can make use of them by all means.
in a similar way
You have to let people know your plans in good time and, by the same token, they should give you some advance warning.
Our college will only benefit from this event as long as it gives a nice and memorable impression. By the same token, we should all be well prepared and visualise beforehand possible manoeuvres that could appear, so that we can control the situation.
goodbye
Are you going? Bye then.
Bye, see you soon.
a taxi
We took a cab to the theatre.
I packed my things and I took a cab home.
a large round vegetable with green, white or purple leaves, which can be eaten cooked or raw
a savoy cabbage
red/white cabbage
Sarma is made with meat and cabbage.
the area where passengers sit on an aircraft
cabin crew
She is a cabin attendant now, and she had a flight to London from Japan.
a small, simple house made of wood
a log cabin
For many years, the visitor could only stay in one of the few cabins near the lake, enjoying a breathtaking view.
a small room to sleep in on a ship
We had a cabin on the top deck.
I went to my cabin to have a little nap.
a cupboard with shelves or drawers to store or show things in
a bathroom/medicine cabinet
a glass-fronted cabinet
By the way I found your watch in the bathroom cabinet, so you don't have to worry about it.
the system of sending signals carrying information for television, telephone, or Internet along wires
cable TV/television
This channel is only available on cable.
The rooms are big and have cable TV and air conditioning.
a set of wires, covered by plastic, that carries electricity, telephone signals, etc.
The road had been dug up in order to lay cables.
overhead power cables
A mouse had eaten the cable so that there was no contact any more.
a small restaurant where you can buy drinks and light meals
There's a little café on the corner that serves very good coffee.
There's a new café near my home.
a container made of wire or metal bars used for keeping birds or animals
It took about 10 minutes to get the mouse into her cage.
There is a wonderful garden, in which you can find a lot of flowers and parrots in a cage.
a sweet food made from flour, butter, sugar and eggs, mixed together and baked
chocolate cake
a birthday cake
Would you like a piece of/a slice of cake?
He made/baked a delicious cake.
Your chocolate cake is great too.
to be very easy
The exam itself was a piece of cake.
The article was a piece of cake though I didn't expect to win.
to be bought quickly and in large numbers
Their new game is selling like hot cakes.
Books about how to remain young are selling like hot cakes.
to discover an amount or number using mathematics
Have you calculated the cost of the project?
He's calculated that it would take him two years to save up enough for a car.
At some stage we need to calculate when the project will be finished.
First of all, you say that we must do 80 kilometres on Saturday, but I have calculated the distance and it is only 50 kilometres.
to be intended to have a particular effect
His comments were calculated to embarrass the prime minister.
Had he known that his Majesty would be vexed, he would have never written such comical rhymes, hardly calculated to endear himself to the King.
when you use mathematics to discover an amount or number
I did some quick calculations to see if we could afford it.
Just a simple calculation: the living space an elephant has got in a zoo is about 500m2.
an electronic device that you use to do mathematical calculations
a pocket calculator
I use the calculator and the computer every day, so modern technology has become a big part of my life.
a list that shows all the days, weeks and months of the year
I think we're free next Saturday but I'll just check the calendar.
I got a calendar from Julie, a candle from Peter, a book from Robert and a birthday cake from my parents.
a young cow
There were some calves in the field.
That reminded me of the time when I milked the cows and fed the ewes and the calves.
the back of your leg below your knee
I pulled a muscle in my calf.
to have a particular name
a boy called Adam
Their latest album is called "In Rainbows".
My friend is called Jessica.
to telephone someone
She called me this morning at the office.
Your mum called last night when you were out.
I've been calling all morning but I can't get hold of him.
I called the police.
For more information, call this number 0862 410919.
to give someone or something a particular name
They've called the twins Katherine and Thomas.
His real name is Jonathan, but they've always called him 'Johnny'.
Two months later, the baby girl was born and she called her 'Mary'.
to say something in a loud voice, especially in order to attract someone's attention
Did you call?
I thought I heard someone call my name.
Someone in the crowd called (out) his name.
"Hey, come over here!" she called.
I ignored the voice, but again someone called me.
to describe someone or something in a particular way
Are you calling me a liar?
He called it a disgrace.
You work too hard and you could be called a workaholic.
to telephone the place where you work and report that you are sick and unable to work
Three people called in sick this morning.
A few minutes after the concert began, a backstage assistant called in sick who was responsible for checking whether everything is going well according to the timetable.
to ask someone to come somewhere
She called me into her office.
He called me over to where he was sitting.
I keep the bedroom door open in case the children call for me in the night.
Next door there's an elderly neighbour who I have always helped. ... Remember to call him over sometimes and together watch television or play cards.
to arrange for an election/meeting, etc. to happen
The chairman has called an emergency meeting.
We hope you will call a meeting to discuss this matter in detail.
to stop doing something, especially working
It's almost midnight - let's call it a day.
She decided to call it a day, so Meredith mustered all her courage and wrote a letter to him: "You are not good enough for me," she told him.
to use impolite or unpleasant words to describe someone
He said the other children were calling him names.
He had never called me names or told me off.
when you use the telephone
Could you give me a call when you have time?
I got a call from Pete last night.
There was a call for you earlier.
I've just got a couple of calls to make.
I'll take the call in my office.
It's really important because I'm waiting for a call from my uncle.
when someone shouts something
She could hear calls for help from inside the burning building.
I'll be in the next room, so give me a call if you need any help.
I continued on towards Kingsley Road where the call for help had been made.
when someone can decide something
I don't mind what we do - it's your call.
This is my opinon, but it is your call, talk to your parents.
a demand for something to happen
a call for action/peace
Their demands included an all-out call for vital reforms in education - not, as one might expect, a call for higher salaries.
a short visit
I thought I'd pay Gary a call.
During our stay in Dublin we took a half-day trip by bus throughout the city, which was an unforgettable experience, and paid a call to the National Museum as well.
relaxed and not worried, frightened, or excited
Try to stay calm - the doctor will be here soon.
Now keep calm everyone, the police are on their way.
He has a very calm manner/voice.
He is calm, friendly and helpful.
describes weather which is not windy, or the sea or a lake when it is still and has no waves
calm seas
The weather was calmer the next morning so we set sail.
There was no rain that day and the sea was calm.
The sea is calm with almost no waves, so we could relax in the water.
to stop feeling upset, angry, or excited, or to stop someone feeling this way
Calm down, Lily, and tell me what's wrong.
She was angry at first but we managed to calm her down.
She sat down and took a few deep breaths to calm herself down.
When I got in my car, I told myself to calm down and take a deep breath.
in a quiet or relaxed way
She reacted surprisingly calmly to the news of his death.
Very calmly, I closed my book and put it on the table which was on my left.
a large animal that lives in the desert and has one or two raised parts on its back
Have you ever ridden a camel?
You can enjoy watching camels and goats passing, once in the morning and again in the evening.
a device for taking photographs or making films or television programmes
I forgot to take my camera with me to Portugal, so I couldn't take any photos.
Television camera crews broadcast the event all round the world.
I like it, because my camera has broken.
a place where people stay in tents or other temporary structures
We pitched/set up camp by the lakeside.
The camp was a peaceful place with flowers, trees, and a cycle track.
an area containing temporary buildings or tents used for soldiers/prisoners/refugees
This year I think I'd rather go to a refugee camp to organise a program for children.
to stay in a tent or temporary shelter
We camped near the beach for two nights.
We camped near a group of lions the first night.
a series of organized activities or events intended to achieve a result
an advertising/election campaign
In order to solve problems caused by traffic congestion, perhaps the City Council should consider launching a publicity campaign to show people in Baden the alternative means of transport and the advantages of using them.
a series of military attacks
a bombing campaign
Another example is the campaign of Alexander the Great.
to organize a series of activities to try to achieve something
to campaign against/for something
Instead of campaigning against tourism, people should look for ways of making it better and safer.
when you stay in a tent on holiday
We used to go camping in Spain when I was a child.
camping equipment
My hobbies are singing, reading and going camping.
an area where people can stay in tents for a holiday
The campsite was very near the beach.
I really enjoyed the scenery because near our tent there was a tiny waterfall; in front of our campsite there was a forest.
the buildings of a college or university and the land that surrounds them
There's accommodation for about five hundred students on campus.
You should visit Kamakura City, which is 30 minutes from our campus by train.
a closed, metal container for food or liquids
a can of beans/soup
I have already bought two cans of blue paint.
to be able to
Can you drive?
She can speak four languages.
I can't read that sign over there - what does it say?
It was difficult to join two words of English correctly. Now I can speak.
used to request something
If you see Adrian, can you tell him I'm in London next weekend?
Can I have a glass of water?
So please, can you make me a big salad?
used in polite offers of help
Can I help you with those bags?
Can I help you?
used to talk about what is possible
You can get stamps at the supermarket.
You can make a quick snack, for example a sandwich.
to be allowed to
Can I go now?
You can't park here.
And if you want, you can bring pencils or pens.
used to show surprise or lack of belief
You can't possibly be hungry already!
Can you believe it?
In fact, the highest tree there is almost 30 metres tall! Can you believe that?
used to talk about how someone often behaves or what something is often like
She can be really rude at times.
When you choose to travel by car there can be a lot of traffic.
used to say that something sometimes happens or is true
Smoking can cause cancer.
The nights can be very cold.
But overworking is also bad. It has lots of disadvantages, and can cause lots of problems, including health problems.
an artificial river built for boats to travel along or to take water from one area to another
The Panama Canal provides a crucial shipping link between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.
And if you don't like jazz, you could visit Tivoli or take a canal tour.
to decide that an organized event will not now happen, or to stop an order for goods or services that you no longer want
They've had to cancel tomorrow's football match because of the bad weather.
The 7:10 train to London's Kings Cross has been cancelled.
I've cancelled the order.
I had nothing to do because my previous plans had been cancelled.
when someone decides that an event will not now happen or stops an order for something
a last-minute cancellation
To begin with, there was a general disappointment due to the cancellation of the opening speech.
a serious disease that is caused when cells in the body grow in a way that is uncontrolled and not normal
breast/lung cancer
He died of liver cancer.
cancer of the stomach
a cancer patient
The doctors told my parents that my aunt was suffering from cancer.
someone who is taking an exam
Write your name and candidate number in the spaces at the top of this page.
It is the name of another candidate who passed the examination.
a person who is competing to get a job or elected position
There are three candidates standing in the election.
I am the appropriate candidate for this job.
a stick of wax with string going through it which produces light as it burns
Shall I light a candle?
I like shopping for clothes but also for other things like candles and so on.
used to describe food or drink that has been put into metal containers in a factory
canned tomatoes
A new way of of eating has sprung up - fast food and canned vegetables are all around us.
the negative form of 'can'
I cannot predict what will happen next year.
I cannot speak English.
a restaurant in a school, college, factory, office, etc.
a school/college canteen
I went to the canteen to buy something.
a hat with a curved part at the front
He wears a baseball cap.
I want to buy shoes, a pull-over, tee-shirt, cap and sun glasses.
to put a limit on an amount of money that can be borrowed, charged, etc.
The interest rate has been capped at 5%.
The cost should also be delinked from the international petrol prices and capped at certain fixed rates for a fixed term.
used when you mention something in addition to all the other bad or disappointing things that have happened
It's been a terrible week and now, to cap it all, the car's broken down.
To cap it all, there was often not enough to eat.
the ability or power to do something
Both players have the capability to win this match.
With the new machines we finally have the capability to do the job properly.
The most important part of this job is to be able to work as a member of a team and manage to use everyone's skills and capabilities.
able to do things effectively and achieve results
She's a very capable young woman.
He's very capable.
I had a little farm when I was in Italy so I think I'm quite capable and have more experience than others.
having the ability, power or qualities to be able to do something
She is certainly capable of running the business.
She was capable of great cruelty.
And although I've never had to cook for myself, I suppose I would be capable of cooking if needed.
the largest amount or number that a container, building, etc. can hold
a restaurant with a capacity of 200
The new stadium has a seating capacity of 50 000.
The ground was filled to capacity.
I would recommend the use of the state stadium next year for the concerts, in order to support the capacity of the crowd.
the ability to do, experience, or understand something
She has a great capacity for hard work.
What impresses me is his capacity to absorb information.
On the other hand, I think films reduce your capacity for imagination.
a position or job
He attended over 100 events last year in his capacity as mayor.
I'm writing in my capacity as secretary of the Social Club of the language school to complain about the services provided to us during our visit to the Science and Technology museum.
a city which is the centre of government of a country, state or region
The capital of France is Paris.
Australia's capital city is Canberra.
You'll go to Hue province, it's the old capital of Vietnam; you can take a train, car or plane from Hanoi to Hue.
a political and economic system in which industry is owned privately for profit and not by the state
Modern capitalism has shaped the global economy.
Although living in the former DDR was almost like living in prison, the film shows the problem of unemployment and the negative results of capitalism.
relating to capitalism
a capitalist society
There will be important insights to have in examining the ways Japan maintains its social solidarity while prospering as a capitalist society.
a large letter of the alphabet used at the beginning of sentences and names
Write your answers in capital letters on the answer sheet.
the leader of a sports team
It's unusual to have a goalkeeper as (the) captain of a football team.
Now I am the captain of the football team.
the person in charge of a ship or an aircraft
This is your captain speaking. We expect to be landing at London Heathrow in an hour's time.
At his third attempt the captain succeeded in landing the plane on the air-strip.
to catch someone and make them your prisoner, or to take something into your possession, especially by force
Two of the soldiers were killed and the rest were captured.
Rebel forces captured the city after a week-long battle.
Joe, the serial killer, was captured.
to show or describe something successfully using words or pictures
His book really captures the spirit of the place.
Firstly, let me tell you that your report is really good. I think you capture in a few lines the whole expression of a Mexican town's life.
to record someone or something on camera/film, etc.
He was captured on film swearing at the referee.
Another event that should absolutely be captured on film is the preparation of the meals in the canteen.
to make someone interested in or excited about something
The Moon landing captured the attention of the whole world.
I am sure this program would capture the interest of other students in this college, as those who participated would be telling their friends all about their adventurous trip.
when a person or animal is caught and made a prisoner
He shot himself to avoid capture.
The best example is Operation Takedown which is based on the capture of Kevin Mitnick, who illegally hacked in to computers and stole information, but in the movie he is presented as a hero.
a road vehicle with an engine, four wheels, and seats for a small number of people
They don't have a car.
Where did you park your car?
It's quicker by car.
a car crash
I come to the college on foot or by car.
a chemical element present in all animals and plants and in coal and oil
Diamonds are formed from carbon.
the gas formed when carbon is burned, or when people or animals breathe out
carbon dioxide emissions
If we use up carbon dioxide with balloon clothes there will be less carbon dioxide on Earth, so there is no worry about the Ozone.
the amount of energy that a person or organization uses in order to exist or operate
Many of us could reduce our carbon footprint by taking fewer flights and insulating our homes better.
I also included some possible precautions to reduce our carbon footprints.
a poisonous gas that is produced by burning some types of fuel, especially petrol
The cause of death was given as carbon monoxide poisoning.
Cars also emit carbon monoxide and make the air unfit to breath.
a folded piece of stiff paper with a picture on the front and a message inside, that you send to someone on a special occasion
birthday/get-well cards
It's Steve's birthday on Thursday - I must send him a card.
I got a pretty hat and a birthday card from them.
one of a set of 52 small rectangular pieces of stiff paper, each with a number and one of four signs printed on it, used in games
After dinner, Ted got out a pack of cards
They play a lot of card games.
Shall we play cards?
Joe, Marie, Martin and Alison came so we played cards.
a small piece of stiff paper or plastic that has information printed on it
a library card
He gave me his business card.
It is important because my student card is in there.
a part inside a computer which controls how the computer operates
a graphics/sound card
Obviously, I completed the configuration with a sound card and the connection by modem to the internet, creating a powerful multimedia work station.
to be likely to happen
Do you think marriage is on the cards?
material like very thick stiff paper, usually pale brown in colour, which is used especially for making boxes
a cardboard box
He was living on the streets for three months, and his home was a cardboard box.
a piece of clothing often made from wool, which covers the upper part of the body and fastens at the front
My worst present ever was an orange and green knitted cardigan from my aunt.
I lost my favourite pink cardigan.
used when saying goodbye to someone
See you soon, Bob - take care!
Take care and see you soon.
to look after someone or something
Take good care of your sister, Patrick.
Don't worry about me, I can take care of myself.
My parents will take care of the house while we're away.
My dad had to go to Canada for a meeting, so he asked me to take care of her.
when you give a lot of attention to something so that you do not make a mistake or damage anything
The roads are icy, so drive with care.
Take care that you don't fall.
You need to take a bit more care with your spelling.
The parcel had a label on it saying 'Handle with care'.
I will return your bicycle tomorrow or the day after and I promise that I will handle it with care.
the process of protecting and looking after someone or something
The standard of care at our local hospital is excellent.
Nurseries are responsible for the children in their care.
In zoos, there are many people who look after them, of course, and so many people think that this care is enough.
to be responsible for dealing with something
I did the cooking while Guy took care of the washing up.
As for special requirements, one man and one woman are vegetarians and the woman is allergic to cats. I hope you are able to take care of that.
a feeling of worry
He was sixteen years old and didn't have a care in the world.
The world is your oyster and you do not have a care in the world.
to think that something is important and to feel interested in it or worried about it
She's never cared very much about her appearance.
I really don't care whether we go out or not.
I don't care how much it costs, just buy it.
He gave us some paperwork and didn't care if we understood what to do.
to love someone
Your parents are only doing this because they care about you.
I knew that Amy still cared for me.
He never cared about you.
used to emphasize that you do not think something is important
"Chelsea should have reached the final!" "Who cares?"
"Who cares?" he answered.
used to emphasize that someone is not interested in or worried about something or someone
I couldn't care less what people think.
There was hunger, there was poverty and the king couldn't care less about his people's well-being.
the job or series of jobs that you do during your working life, especially if you continue to get better jobs and earn more money
He hasn't yet chosen a career.
a successful career in marketing
What are the career prospects?
I think it's important to learn English for my career in the future.
the time that you spend doing a particular job
She began her acting career in TV commercials.
His tennis career was only a small introduction to his business career.
without any worries or problems
a carefree childhood
It reminded her of their far-away, carefree youth when they were energetic, healthy and full of hope.
giving a lot of attention to what you are doing so that you do not have an accident, make a mistake, or damage something
Be careful with that knife.
Be careful where you put that hot pan.
Be careful what/how much you say to him - he can't keep any secrets!
Be careful to look both ways when you cross the road.
Michael is a very careful worker.
I think you must be more careful.
with great attention
She carefully folded the letter and put it in her pocket.
Drive carefully on those icy roads.
It was a carefully prepared speech.
Look at it carefully.
not giving enough attention to what you are doing
careless driving/drivers
My son's teacher says that his work is often rather careless.
He made a careless remark about her appearance that really upset her.
In short, we have to realise the danger of careless driving, in order to avoid or at least to reduce the high rate of car accidents.
in a careless way
He told me off for driving carelessly.
I broke your beautiful vase carelessly while I ran to answer the door.
the state of being careless
It's the carelessness with which he just throws stuff on the floor that annoys me.
Please forgive my carelessness. I'd like to bring a new one like yours when I come to you next time.
goods that are carried in a vehicle
a cargo of oil
a cargo ship/plane
The ships that pass through the Schelde usually carry cargo such as oil, and different vitally important foods from abroad.
describes someone who is kind and gives emotional support to others
I've always thought of Jo as a very caring person.
Of course I enjoyed staying with you. It was really a remarkable experience being able to live with a caring family like yours.
a public celebration where people wear special clothes and dance and play music in the streets
I took the kids to the local carnival.
Of course it is not as good as the carnival of Rio!
an area of ground for parking cars
I parked in the car park.
We can meet in sector B of the shop car park.
thick material for covering floors, often made of wool
We've got fitted carpets in the bedrooms.
I'm going to use the colour pink for my bedroom, because I also have a pink carpet.
one of the separate parts of a train where the passengers sit
The front carriage of the train is for first-class passengers only.
You may also buy a ticket in a sleeping carriage and spend the whole night comfortably sleeping.
a vehicle with wheels that is pulled by a horse
a horse and carriage
James Brown, the most brilliant detective of all time, was driving in a horse-drawn carriage through the foggy London streets to his flat in Oxford Street.
a long, thin orange vegetable that grows in the ground
raw carrot
Chop the carrots finely.
You can just bring vegetables - tomatoes, carrots, cucumber and potatoes.
something that is offered to someone in order to encourage them to do something
The carrot is the extra payment they will get if they finish the work on time.
Weiss's policy of dangling the carrot proved useful - he managed, literally, to hit two birds with one stone.
to hold something or someone with your hands, arms, or on your back and take them from one place to another
Let me carry your bag for you.
She was carrying a small child.
To help you I can carry some drinks and food.
to have something with you all the time
She still carries his photo in her purse.
Police officers in Britain do not usually carry guns.
I carried all of my holiday money inside it!
to move someone or something from one place to another
The plane was carrying 300 passengers.
The bus was carrying children to school.
Underground cables carry electricity to all parts of the city.
Police think that the body was carried down the river.
Rubbish left on the beach during the day is carried away at night by the tide.
Jay's swimming trunks got carried away by that huge wave.
to have a disease that you might give to someone else
Mosquitoes carry malaria and other infectious diseases.
to have something as a part, quality, or result of something
All cigarette advertising must carry a government health warning.
Murder still carries the death penalty there.
It is not something flashy or expensive but to me it is an object that carries great sentimental value.
to support the weight of something
Is the ice thick enough to carry my weight?
My legs hardly managed to carry my weight as we began to enter.
to be considered important and effective in influencing someone
His opinions carry a lot of weight with the scientific community.
It has become increasingly important to strive for near perfection in every move they make, the pursuit of excellence therefore carrying more weight than ever and leading to strenuous training programmes.
a film made using characters that are drawn and not real
Mickey Mouse and other famous cartoon characters
We are going to paint my room with cartoon characters.
a funny drawing, especially in a newspaper or magazine
He likes the cartoons that you get on the back page.
My present is a pack of cartoon books.
to make an object, a shape, or a pattern by cutting wood, stone, etc.
The statue was carved out of stone.
They had carved their initials into the tree.
Odd symbols have been carved on both sides of its square handle.
a container for storing or protecting something
a pencil case
a glasses case
You have to bring with you your pencil case, your books and your notebooks.
a suitcase
Shall I carry your case onto the train?
The present was very expensive, it was a black case from Italy.
a particular situation or example of something
Over fifty people were injured, in several cases seriously.
I wouldn't normally agree but I'll make an exception in this case.
The number of new cases of flu has risen.
We have lots of applications from people who want to study here and in each case we consider the candidate very carefully.
She was suffering from an extreme case of sunburn.
In this case, I suggest that you need to gather your friends and go to ask for it together.
when something happens, or in preparation for when something happens
We keep a bucket of water backstage, in case of fire.
It is about how to rescue people in case of an accident or a natural disaster.
because of a possibility of something happening, being needed, etc.
I don't think I'll need any money but I'll bring some just in case.
Bring a map in case you get lost.
I have my mobile with me just in case.
to be true
Bad diet can cause tiredness, but I don't think that's the case here.
I take it that the booking includes breakfast - if that isn't the case, please let us know.
Could you also please let me know if you're coming back in time for dinner because if that's the case I'll make a splendid dinner for us.
used to give another reason for something you are saying, or that you have done
I don't want to go and in any case, I haven't been invited.
I suggest that you should in any case leave your car at home and take buses or other public means of transport.
because of the mentioned situation
There's no coffee left? In that case I'll have tea.
You could try kayaking. In that case, of course, you need to pay for the equipment.
a crime that police are trying to solve
a murder case
Police in the town have investigated 50 cases of burglary in the past month.
The detective on the case has been suspended from duty.
They succeeded in solving a case too difficult even for the police.
a matter to be decided by a judge in a court of law
The case will go before the European Court next month.
She accused her employer of unlawful dismissal and won/lost her case.
To summarize, we lost the case on the ground that he had a criminal background and that the girl's testimony wasn't reliable because she was in love with the man, as she confessed herself in court.
an illness, or somebody with an illness
4,000 new cases of the disease are diagnosed every year.
Two years ago, Mr Slovac contacted us and told us that John had died of a severe case of malaria.
arguments, facts, or reasons that prove a particular opinion
There is a strong case for/against bringing in the new legislation.
He put the case for more funding very convincingly.
She was given the opportunity to state her case.
But there are other reasons which help make a case for tourism.
money in the form of notes and coins
Do you have any cash on you?
Will you pay by credit card or in cash?
When I went to your house last night, I left my red bag - in there I have some cash and my glasses.
money in any form
I'm a bit short of cash at the moment.
There are a lot of hotels, but if you don't want to spend any cash you can stay at my place.
a machine, usually in a wall outside a bank, that you can get money from using a plastic card
I got some money out from the cashpoint.
I went to the nearest cashpoint and got £400.
a mixture of meat or beans with liquid and vegetables cooked for a long time in the oven
a beef casserole
The "Quaint and Cosy", which faces our town's main square, is a classy place with a hint of irony: the atmosphere, quiet and relaxing, is what you need to taste a very special salmon en croute, and a pork and orange casserole that eventually became the restaurant's second name.
a large, heavy container with a lid, that is used for cooking casseroles
Bake the mixture in a casserole.
I remember going around the kitchen, looking for old used pans, casseroles and all kind of utensils which could call the attention of the people passing by.
all the actors in a film, play or show
After the final performance, the director threw a party for the cast.
Part of the film's success lies in the strength of the supporting cast.
Unfortunately as soon as I came to the theatre I was told that there had been a change in the cast and Danny Brook was not part of it anymore.
to choose an actor for a particular part in a film or play
Why is he always cast as a criminal?
And this "universal force" of this book made it possible to already have two cinematographic versions; the first, really similar to the book, casts Colin Firth as the main character, the second, an American version of the book, changed the football passion to a baseball madness, showing well how universal this story could be.
to vote
Many people cast their votes for the opposition.
When the day of the General Elections came, no woman cast her vote for James and he lost his seat to a man from a minority party, not even the man representing the Labour Party.
to try to remember
If you cast your mind back, you might recall that I never promised to go.
Thus, when I pick one of these stones, I cast my mind back to the specific place where I found it, the person I was, the particular moment.
to seem to use magic to attract someone
The city had cast a spell on me and I never wanted to leave.
Even objects that came indirectly into our possession may cast an emotional spell on us.
to use magic to make something happen to someone
The witch cast a spell on her.
The good fairy, taking pity upon Laura, prevented her from going on living without her prince - which would have been too painful for her - by casting a spell upon the castle that put every one of its inhabitants into a deep, dreamless sleep.
to make people feel uncertain about someone or something
Witnesses have cast doubt on the suspect's innocence.
A leading scientist has cast doubts on government claims that the drug is safe.
Wars lead to suffering, tears and the death of many people. They cast doubt on our humanity and values, especially in countries where the right to live is the principal one.
to send light or shadow in a particular direction
The moon cast a white light into the room.
The first blush of the morning was casting a yellow soft light over the landscape.
a large strong building with towers and high walls that was built in the past to protect the people inside from being attacked
Warwick Castle
You could visit a really famous castle which is near my town.
Casual clothes are comfortable but not smart and not suitable for formal occasions.
casual clothes
I mostly wear casual things, jumpers and jeans for example.
not planned, or without particular meaning or importance
a casual meeting/remark
It was last summer, when I had a casual meeting with someone.
Casual work is not regular or fixed.
casual labour/workers
I am a registered nurse by profession and am a casual worker at Bankstown Hospital.
in a casual way
She was dressed casually in shorts and a T-shirt.
I suggest that you and your group go dressed casually.
someone who is injured or killed in an accident or war
Both sides in the conflict have promised to try to avoid civilian casualties.
As films, books and documentaries show, it was a real disaster, not only because the ship sank, but also due to the high number of casualties.
the part of a hospital where people go when they have been injured or have urgent illnesses so that they can be treated immediately - the official name for this is Accident and Emergency (A&E)
Mark has been taken to casualty.
It was so bad that I needed to be taken to casualty for my blood tests and X-rays.
a small animal with fur, four legs and a tail that is kept as a pet
I saw that orange cat today.
We have two dogs, a cat and lots of birds.
a book with a list of items, such as pictures on display or goods that you can buy from a business
a mail-order catalogue
I would be very grateful if you could send me the catalogue for the next auction.
an extremely bad event that causes a lot of suffering or destruction
After the drought, the country is facing environmental catastrophe.
In Asian and African societies, where time is seen as a circle, rather than a straight line with a definite beginning and end, the legacy of past generations is regarded with due respect as the main source of wisdom and deliverance from natural catastrophes as well as everyday difficulties.
to take hold of something, especially something that is moving through the air
Try to catch the ball.
She fell backwards but he caught her in his arms.
I like the competition, because it's interesting to see who can catch the ball and who can't.
to get on a bus, train, etc. in order to travel somewhere
He catches the 8:30 train to London.
I got there too late to catch the last bus home.
I can catch the bus to Cheltenham.
to get an illness, especially one caused by bacteria or a virus
He's caught a cold.
He caught the flu while we were on holiday.
I heard you caught a cold.
to find and stop a person or animal that is trying to escape
Did they ever catch the terrorists?
They caught a lot of fish that day.
He gave me some good tips on how to catch some really large fish.
to start burning
The factory caught fire late yesterday evening.
One of the new machines that I had brought from Germany had caught fire.
to make someone notice something and feel interested
A ship out at sea caught his attention.
The first thing that caught my attention in the advert was "... eight people from different countries...".
to discover someone who is doing something wrong or something secret
He caught her reading his old love letters.
She was caught cheating in the exam.
I learnt a good lesson when I was caught cheating on a test at school last year.
If the police catch a criminal, they find them and take them away.
These terrorists must be caught.
The issue had been forgotten and the burglar was never caught.
to be unable to avoid something unpleasant
I got caught in the rain.
I must apologise for my lateness as I was caught in the bad weather.
to stick somewhere, or to make something stick somewhere
My dress caught on the door handle as I was leaving.
No sooner did I start bicycling before my slacks got caught in the chain and with a curse coming from my lips I fell right into the neighbour's well trimmed shrubbery.
to see something suddenly, often only for a short time
He caught sight of himself in the mirror.
All we could see were people bursting into tears when they caught sight of his coffin.
to get someone's attention by looking at them
I tried to catch her eye, but she had already turned away.
All of a sudden she caught my eye and smiled in a sad way.
to be attractive or different enough to be noticed by people
It was the colour of his jacket that caught my eye.
Dear Sir, I am writing regarding your newly published article about nutrition, which immediately caught my eye as I was reading your magazine.
to surprise someone by doing something when they are not ready to deal with it
The journalist caught him off guard and he admitted to lying.
It caught me off guard. This grotesque image shattered the comfort of a languid Sunday afternoon and for a few seconds hurled me into a world of pain.
a group of people or things of the same type
There are three categories of accommodation - standard, executive and deluxe.
I belong to the category of people who think that society needs zoos.
to provide and often serve food and drinks for a particular event
How many are we catering for at the wedding reception?
I can understand why you shortlisted these three proposals as all of them seem good enough to cater for our canteen.
providing food and drinks for people
Who did the catering for the party?
a high-class catering company
All food, appetizers and refreshments will be provided by a catering company.
the largest and most important church in a particular area
Salisbury Cathedral
It's an interesting place because there is an important cathedral called Lujan Cathedral.
male and female cows kept on a farm for their milk or meat
beef/dairy cattle
He was born in Australia, where his father has a big cattle station.
the reason why something, especially something bad, happens
The police are still trying to establish the cause of the fire.
She had died of natural causes.
Overworking can be a cause of many problems.
a principle or aim that a group of people support or fight for
The money will all go to a good cause.
He fought for the Republican cause in the war.
It would be a shame if people got the wrong impression, that it is not worth working and making an effort for charity and good causes and I would certainly not like to believe that your paper contributed to giving that impression??
a reason to feel something or to behave in a particular way
He's never given me any cause for concern.
Nowadays, the world is filled with fast food restaurants, making diseases like obesity a cause for concern everywhere.
to make something happen, especially something bad
The difficult driving conditions caused several accidents.
Most heart attacks are caused by blood clots.
The bright light caused her to look away.
Admittedly, using your car is more convenient and easier than using public transport but, in my opinion, the advantages of using public transport outweigh the disadvantages it can cause.
great care and attention not to take risks or get into danger
Travellers have been advised to exercise great caution when passing through the region.
I would treat anything he says with extreme caution.
Extreme caution has to be taken during push-back and engine start.
to take a risk
I decided to throw caution to the wind and book a ticket to India.
They just threw caution to the wind, and did what they wanted.
to warn someone of something
They were cautioned against buying shares in the company.
This is a totally unnecessary situation to be in and if possible, people should be cautioned about getting into such a habit.
taking care to avoid risks or danger
He's a very cautious driver.
We take a more cautious approach.
She is cautious about lending money to anyone.
You should be cautious and sensible.
a large hole in the side of a hill, cliff or mountain, or one that is underground
The area is also home to one of the largest underground cave and lake systems in Latin America.
The next day I went to see a cave with a blue lake inside it.
ABBREVIATION FOR compact disc: a small disc on which music or information is recorded
His CD collection is vast.
Martin gave me a CD, Valeria gave me some make-up, and Juliana gave me a pink belt.
a machine that is used for playing music CDs
She has a CD player in her bedroom.
My cousin bought me a CD player and I got a box of chocolates from my friends.
ABBREVIATION FOR compact disc read-only memory: a disc that holds large amounts of information that can be read by a computer but cannot be changed
Cambridge dictionaries are available on CD-ROM.
to stop
He ordered his men to cease firing.
The company has decided to cease all UK operations after this year.
She never ceases to amaze me.
I thought the ring was just inside my head, in the dream. But it didn't cease, making me realize it was something else, from outside the room.
the surface of a room which you can see when you look above you
Look at all those lights hanging from the ceiling.
I am going to use lilac for the walls and violet for the ceiling.
a limit on the amount that can be paid for something
They have set a ceiling on pay rises.
to do something enjoyable because it is a special day, or because something good has happened
We always celebrate our wedding anniversary by going out to dinner.
We'd just finished our exams so we were having a party to celebrate.
We are going to celebrate my husband's birthday at home with some friends, so I'm preparing everything for the party.
a special social event, such as a party, when you celebrate something, or the act of celebrating something
There were lively New Year celebrations all over town.
Such good news calls for a celebration!
He told me that he decided to marry and he invited me to the celebration in Paris in November.
someone who is famous, especially in the entertainment business
It's a celebrity gossip magazine.
The walls are painted blue and hung with posters of my favourite celebrities.
the smallest basic unit of a plant or animal
brain/blood cells
cancer cells
... such as, using gamma rays to damage the cancer cell or to treat people's short sight and so on.
a small room in a prison or police station where a prisoner is kept
He was kept in a prison cell for four months.
That's why six years after this I'm writing the story in my cold wet cell.
a room under the ground floor of a building, usually used for storage
He keeps his wine in the cellar.
We were in the cellar of the old castle without a candle or even matches.
a large, wooden musical instrument with four strings that you hold between your knees to play
She plays the cello.
It was Beethoven, the 9th symphony. The cellos and violins, followed by the timpani...
a place where dead people are buried
She went to the cemetery where her grandfather was buried.
It was Halloween night and almost midnight, and Steve had the idea of going out to the nearest cemetery to catch some ghosts or vampires.
a unit of money worth 0.01 of the US dollar and of the main monetary unit of many countries, or a coin with this value
He spent eighty cents on a chocolate bar.
Last weekend I went with a few friends to the shopping center of my town, but I didn't spend a cent.
a measurement of temperature in which water freezes at 0° and boils at 100°
Water boils at 100° centigrade.
The last few days I preferred to go swimming, because the temperature was above thirty degrees centigrade.
a unit of length equal to 0.01 of a metre
The picture measures fifty centimetres by thirty centimetres.
The size is 160 x 200 cm.
in or near the centre of a place or object
central Europe/London
Of course, you pay more for premises with a central location.
We could go for a walk to the park in the central area of my town.
in the main part of a town or city
Our offices are very central.
The house location is very central, it is in South Kensington and it is within walking distance of Gloucester Road Underground station.
controlled or organized in one main place
central authorities/government
the US central bank
central control/planning
The contribution of the central government seems to be inevitable to complete the project.
main or most important
a central character/figure
the central argument of the book
Her role is central to the film.
As a central character, Piggy works both as a real boy and a symbol.
a system of heating a building by warming air or water in one place and carrying it to different rooms in pipes
The house had no central heating so in winter it was freezing.
I like this restaurant because it's cheap, big and tidy, and at the same time it has central heating and air conditioning.
the middle point or part of something
There was a large table in the centre of the room.
Cars are not allowed in the town centre.
My new house is in the centre of Rome.
a place or a building used for a particular activity
a sports/leisure/health centre
a garden/shopping centre
a centre for the homeless
Beside KLCC, there is a shopping centre.
to receive more attention than anyone or anything else
She loves to be the centre of attention.
To sum it up, most celebrities love being the centre of attention and sometimes even ask for it.
a political position with opinions that are not extreme
His political views are left of centre.
a period of 100 years, especially used in giving dates
the 21st century
The city centre has scarcely changed in over a century.
I love it, because for me "The Beatles" is the best band of the century.
the start of a new century
He was born at the turn of the century.
a food that is made from grain and usually eaten with milk, especially in the morning
a bowl of cereal
breakfast cereals
Usually, we have a good breakfast with toast, cereals, milk and juice, but it depends on each person.
a plant that is grown to produce grain for food
cereal crops
During this part you can see cereal crops, mainly wheat.
a formal event that is performed on important social or religious occasions
a wedding/graduation ceremony
In July I'm going to get married to my girl friend, and the wedding ceremony is on 7th of July.
completely sure of something, or knowing without doubt that something is true
I feel certain (that) you're doing the right thing.
Are you absolutely certain (that) you gave them the right number?
I'm not certain how much it will cost.
He was quite certain about/of his attacker's identity.
I'm certain that in your country weddings are as wonderful as in Brazil.
sure to happen, to do something, or to be true
It now looks certain that she will resign.
One thing is certain: she's not coming to my party.
How can we make certain that she sees the note?
If I were you I'd choose the large school because it's certain that you'll find people there that think like you.
used to refer to a particular person or thing without naming or describing them
The museum is only open at certain times of the day.
The last one I saw was called 'Spelling' and it was a kind of quiz where the competitors had to spell difficult words fast and finish at a certain time.
used before a noun when it is difficult to describe something exactly or give its exact amount
He's got a certain charm.
There was still that gleam and a certain kind of pride which let me assume once she must have been a strong lady.
to know something without doubt
We don't know for certain whether she's coming.
The rules may be considered a bit too strict, the teaching methods too "old-fashioned", but I know for certain that this course gives very good preparation in Business English.
used to emphasize something and show that there is no doubt about it
I'll certainly be there.
They certainly deserved to win.
She certainly knew him but I don't know how close they were.
"Do you think more money should be given to education?" "Certainly!"
Don't wear new clothes, you will certainly get dirty.
used to agree politely to a request
"Could you pass the salt, please?" "Certainly."
used after an adverb in short, negative replies
"She's not exactly poor, is she?" "Certainly not."
"Will you be taking her there?" "Certainly not!"
Are all young people lazy and unable to participate in any form of sport? Certainly not!!!
when you are completely sure about something
I'm unable to answer that question with any certainty.
I can say with certainty that this town is just a treasure of Polish culture.
something that is very likely to happen or cannot be doubted
There are no absolute certainties in life.
The Book is a Hitchcockian sequence of chases, shaken certainties, mistaken identities, masquerades and escapes.
an official document that gives details to show that something is true
a birth/marriage/death certificate
an examination certificate
a doctor's/medical certificate
You must have the PET certificate and you should speak another language.
a line of metal rings connected together
a bicycle chain
She wore a gold chain around her neck.
The hostages were kept in chains.
My best friend, Clara, gave me a silver chain. I like it a lot!!!
a number of similar shops, restaurants, etc. owned by the same company
a chain of hotels/shops/supermarkets
a fast-food chain
These days children have grown up with McDonalds and other fast-food chains.
a series of things that happen one after the other
a chain reaction
His arrival set off a surprising chain of events.
The problem began to increase because all her friends knew her secret. It was like a "chain reaction".
a seat for one person, which has a back, usually four legs, and sometimes two arms
He sat back in his chair.
You can sit on the chair outside and look at the bridge.
something that is difficult and that tests someone's ability or determination
Finding a solution to this problem is one of the greatest challenges faced by scientists today.
You know me - I like a challenge.
It's going to be a difficult job but I'm sure she'll rise to the challenge.
I went with two friends from school, we had a big adventure there and we had to face many challenges.
an expression of disagreement with ideas, rules, or someone's authority
a challenge to the authority of the President
The one occasion in which Jack seems childish is when his challenge to Ralph's leadership fails and he weeps with humiliation.
to express disagreement with ideas, rules, or someone's authority
Children challenge their parents' authority far more nowadays than they did in the past.
His daughter had just challenged him and he was struggling for a decision.
difficult, in a way that tests your ability or determination
This has been a challenging time for us all.
Like cavaliers we ride across the country looking for adventures and challenging activities.
French white wine with lots of bubbles in it which people often drink to celebrate something
We always celebrate our wedding anniversary with a bottle of champagne.
We are listening to music, dancing, drinking champagne.
a person, animal, or team that wins a competition
an Olympic champion
She is the world champion for the third year in succession.
The defending champion will play his first match of the tournament tomorrow.
Who are the European football champions?
Last week I played with a person who was the world chess champion!
someone who supports, defends, or fights for a person, belief, or principle
a champion of human rights
What this argument attempts to show is that too much emphasis on them, perhaps accelerated by commercial interests, has let them act as if they were the champions of personal virtues.
a competition to find the best team or player in a particular game or sport
the British Diving Championship
The world championships will be held in Scotland next year.
He has been playing championship tennis for three years now.
I have a sailing championship, in which I must participate.
the possibility that something will happen
There's a chance (that) he'll still be there.
Does she have any chance of winning?
You'd have a better chance of passing your exams if you worked a bit harder.
There's a good chance (that) I'll have this essay finished by tomorrow.
What are the chances of getting tickets for the Olympics?
Is there any chance of borrowing your bicycle?
the opportunity to do something
I didn't get/have a chance to speak to her.
If you give me a chance to speak, I'll explain.
This trip is the chance of a lifetime.
He left and I missed my chance to say goodbye to him.
If you get a chance to learn to dance, you must do this because it is fun.
when something happens because of luck, or without being planned
I saw her by chance in the shop.
By chance it was my camera.
a risk
I'm delivering my work by hand. I'm not taking any chances.
There's a chance of injury in almost any sport.
The chances of having an accident on a bicycle are bigger than in a car.
it is likely
Chances are that he'll refuse.
If we plan a picnic, the chances are that it'll rain.
This was the case in London this summer, and with England's failing electricity system, chances are that this winter we will experience a similar situation.
to have a chance of success or of achieving something
He stands a good chance of winning the election.
These kids don't stand a chance of getting an education.
If this measure were taken, the outcome would be of fundamental importance for the currently unemployed because they will stand a chance of finding a job and making a living.
used to ask in a polite way whether something is possible or true
You're not Spanish by any chance, are you?
I pick up the phone "Hello, Nick have you by any chance got, or seen, my diary?
used to emphasize that there is no possibility of something happening
"Do you think she'd go out with me?" "No chance!"
If you blow it or blow your chance, you lose an opportunity to do something by doing or saying the wrong thing.
I blew it when I criticized the way she ran the office.
Tom blew his chances of getting the job by arriving late for the interview.
I'm giving you one last chance. If you blow it, you'll be sent to an Institution which treats people like you.
the leader of the government in some countries
the German chancellor
Besides the point that our current government has become very much immovable during the last decade, Chancellor Kohl ought to know very well about Germany's historical development since he had passed his exam in history.
the person in the British government who makes decisions about taxes and government spending
He became chancellor in 2010.
He soon rose to be the First Secretary in the Department of Finance, directly under the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
to stop having or using one thing, and start having or using another
She's just changed jobs.
I hope they can change the time of my interview.
The doctor has recommended changing my diet.
I changed job last month, and now I'm working in a nursery.
to become different, or to make someone or something become different
The course changed my life.
I almost didn't recognize her - she'd changed so much.
That was twenty years ago and things have changed since then.
Nothing changes, does it - I've been away two years and the office still looks exactly the same.
My room doesn't change.
to take off your clothes and put on different ones
You don't need to change - you look great as you are.
I'll just change into something a bit smarter.
Give me five minutes to change out of my work clothes and I'll come out with you.
How often do you think he changes his shirt?
You can change your clothes here.
to get off a train, bus, etc. and catch another in order to continue a journey
I had to change (trains) twice to get there.
Change at Peterborough for York.
On the return flight from Los Angeles, I had to change planes in Paris.
to get or give someone money in exchange for money of a different type
Could you change a £20 note for two tens, please?
I need to change my dollars for/into pounds.
Can I change money for US dollars there?
to take something you have bought back to a shop and exchange it for something else
I had to change those trousers I bought for a bigger pair.
to change a decision or opinion
If you change your mind about coming tonight, just give me a call.
When I first met him I didn't like him but I've changed my mind.
After the first lesson, I changed my mind.
to start talking about a different subject
I'd tried to explain the situation, but he just changed the subject.
Well, changing the subject, I accidentally broke your beautiful vase. I'm really sorry, I'll try to find another vase that looks similar.
when something becomes different, or the result of something becoming different
Let me know if there's any change in the situation.
We're living in a time of great change.
They've made a lot of changes to the house.
Really, this bedroom needs a big change.
when you stop having or using one thing and start having or using another
I've told the school about our change of address.
This country needs a change of government.
The reason for the change of class was mainly the teacher.
a set of clean clothes you can put on if you need to take off the ones you are wearing
Make sure you bring a change of clothes.
If you want you can bring an extra change of clothes so we can get wet.
the money which is returned to someone who has paid for something which costs less than the amount that they gave
I think you've given me the wrong change.
First of all, I helped selling tickets and drinks and there I realized how bad my maths is - I took such a long time to give back the change!
money which is coins rather than notes
She gave me £5 in change.
My dad always used to carry a lot of loose/small change in his pocket.
He asked me if I had any change.
something which is pleasant or interesting because it is unusual or new
It's nice to see her smile for a change.
"Shall we eat in the garden?" "Why not - it'll make a change."
We've always had a red car - it's time we had a change!
Last year the college had a sports day so this year we should have a party in a disco for a change.
If you have a change of heart, you change your opinion or feelings about something.
At first he said he wouldn't help us, but he seems to have had a change of heart.
The narrator didn't tell her big secret to Inder Lal and after a change of heart she decides to keep the baby.
often changing, or likely to change
The weather was very changeable last summer.
I must say that summers here are a bit mild and changeable.
a television station
a cable/terrestrial channel
a music/movie/news/shopping/sports channel
the news on Channel 4
She switched/turned to another channel to watch the football.
First of all, I enjoy watching news on international channels like Aljazeera, CNN, Alhurra and BBC.
a way of communicating with people or getting something done
a channel of communication
Please make your request through the proper channels.
to use money or energy for a particular purpose
We've channelled all our resources into this project.
In the same way that it shouldn't take the place of more important matters, there shouldn't be so much money channelled into it, especially when we want to see it as sport rather than business, and when there are so many other much fairer ends for that money.
a state of total confusion with no order
Snow and ice have caused chaos on the roads.
Ever since our secretary walked out, the office has been in a state of total chaos.
There was chaos at the school.
in a state of chaos
a chaotic situation
Consequently, in order to improve the chaotic traffic situation it is advisable to choose other means of transport as mentioned above.
a small church, or a room used as a church in a building
There is a small chapel in the grounds of the house.
On one occasion we were taken to a small chapel that was in such a state of dilapidation that it was not worth climbing the stairs.
one of the parts that a book is divided into
Read Chapter 3 before class tomorrow.
I promise you that I will read chapter 10 of the book, and I will make a resume for you.
a person represented in a film, play or story
The film revolves around three main characters.
She had Mickey Mouse or some other cartoon/Disney character on her sweater.
He made his name as a character actor.
My favourite character was Gandalf but Lucie preferred Morween, the young elf maiden.
the combination of qualities and personality that makes a person different from others
Politeness is traditionally part of the British character.
It would be very out of character of her to lie.
One of the joys of being a parent is watching the child's character develop.
It's not in his character to be jealous.
Mary had a strong character and faced her uncle with great courage.
qualities that are interesting or unusual
a hotel of character
There are many very old houses with a lot of character and charm, which are just perfect for a photographer.
an interesting or funny person whose behaviour is different from most people's
Your granny's a real character.
Mr Brown is a great character.
a letter, sign, or number that you use when you are writing or printing
Chinese characters
However, the poems are written in old Japanese characters which are difficult to understand.
a particular kind of person
an unpleasant character
John was a gentle character, rather shy, but full of joy and happiness.
a typical or noticeable quality of someone or something
Unfortunately a big nose is a family characteristic.
Sentimentality seems a characteristic of all the writers of that period.
The male bird displays several characteristics which distinguish him from the female.
Orwell gives the animals human characteristics and we can identify with them.
typical of someone or something
Grey stone is characteristic of buildings in that area.
With characteristic generosity, she offered to pay for us all.
But to be honest, food is the only feature which will stay as a characteristic aspect of a country.
to ask an amount of money for something, especially a service or activity
How much/What do you charge for delivery?
The bank charged commission to change my traveller's cheques.
They charge you $20 just to get into the nightclub.
The local museum doesn't charge for admission.
Be careful while you are in Brazil because sometimes people charge really high prices for everything just because you are a tourist.
If the police charge someone, they accuse them officially of a crime.
She's been charged with murder.
While Jem is accused of a minor crime, Joss is charged with smuggling.
to attack someone or something by moving forward quickly
The bull lowered its horns and charged.
The violence began when the police charged at a crowd of demonstrators.
They had water bombs and water pistols at the ready. They started charging down the field towards the fire and once in range everyone thew their balloon as far as they could.
to put electricity into something
My mobile needs charging.
the amount of money that you have to pay for something, especially for an activity or service
There's no charge for children under ten.
There's an admission charge of £5.
They fixed my watch free of charge.
It is free of charge and will give me a idea of this sport.
to be the person who has control of or is responsible for someone or something
She's in charge of a team of 20 people.
Who's in charge of organizing the music for the party.
I talked to the man who was in charge and he convinced me that it was safe, so I did it.
to take control of or make yourself responsible for something
I was happy to let her take charge of the holiday arrangements.
I am 21 years old which means that I can take charge of school children.
a formal police statement saying that someone is accused of a crime
The 19-year-old will be appearing in court on Thursday where she will face criminal charges.
He has been arrested on a charge of murder.
The police brought a charge of theft against him.
He decided on the spot that if Paul was to return all the money he wouldn't press charges so he called his parents and asked them to find out where he was.
to complain officially about someone in a court of law
The family decided not to press charges against him.
He decided on the spot that if Paul was to return all the money he wouldn't press charges so he called his parents and asked them to find out where he was.
a natural power which some people have to influence or attract people
He is a respected politician but he lacks charisma.
I admire people with heart and soul, with that real charisma which can only blossom in highly intelligent and spiritual people - this is what we call `intense personality'.
having a natural power to influence and attract people
Her mother was a very charismatic woman.
Some charismatic people have a great influence on others, and they are highly respected or praised.
an official organization that gives money, food, or help to people who need it, or money, food, or help that is given to people who need it
UNICEF is an international charity.
She does a lot of work for charity.
She does a lot of charity work.
People tend to give to charity at Christmas time.
Money from the sale of these cards will go to local charities.
In the club, we do some charity work, helping people.
kindness towards other people
an act of charity
It is undeniable that nowadays the whole world is suffering from the lack of good personality models to follow. Models that are able to show the importance of charity, humility and other qualities so old-fashioned in our age.
a quality which makes you like or feel attracted to someone or something
a woman of great charm
The building has a certain charm.
I had to use all my charms to get them to lend us the hall.
It's an extremely severe and rugged sort of landscape with its own very special charm.
an object that you keep or wear because you believe that it is lucky
a lucky charm
Consequently, "the treasures" I took there were nothing but all the little gifts and lucky charms I had received from my boyfriend and friends.
to attract someone or persuade someone to do something because of your charm
We were charmed by his boyish manner.
She arrived in time for the ball held that night, and everybody was charmed by her looks and manners.
pleasant and attractive
He's very charming.
It's a charming little village.
He's charming, but he's too talkative and not romantic enough.
a drawing which shows information in a simple way, often using lines and curves to show amounts
a sales chart
Now I can create special charts at home.
an official list of the most popular songs each week
They're currently at the top of the charts with their single 'Enough'.
She gets to the people's hearts by music and she is now at the top of the charts with the song "Love me".
to run after someone or something in order to catch them
The dog was chasing a rabbit.
She was chasing after her two-year-old son.
I could feel that the man was chasing after me.
to run after a person or animal to make them leave a place
I chased the cat away.
But one day, Napoleon said that his rival Snowball was a spy of the farmers and chased him away.
to try very hard to get something
There are hundreds of graduates chasing very few jobs.
I was tired and for the first time I started to take notice of the smirks on peoples faces as I walked past them, the silent laughter and I saw myself through their eyes; I was an old fool, chasing a ridiculous, flimsy dream.
to talk to someone in a friendly and informal way
She spends hours on the phone chatting to her friends.
We were just chatting about what we did last weekend.
Whenever I walk in, I always find the two of them chatting away.
We were eating, drinking and chatting at the party.
to have a conversation with someone who is online at the same time as you are by typing messages
We were chatting till well past midnight.
I can surf the Internet and chat with some friends.
a friendly, informal conversation
Give me a call and we'll have a chat sometime.
I had a chat with my boss today about a possible salary increase.
Then we can go to Starbucks Café to have a chat after the film.
a television or radio programme where people are asked questions about themselves
I saw her on a chat show last week.
But I'm very interested in politics, so I really enjoy political and chat shows.
liking to talk
My sister is very chatty.
Both Mr Brown and Peter are chatty and not afraid of the camcorder.
A piece of writing that is chatty has a friendly and informal style.
a chatty letter/style
To be more specific, the articles will include events taken from our college life, written in a humorous, chatty way in order to help them see life in its positive aspect.
costing little money or less than is usual or expected
I got a cheap flight at the last minute.
Food is usually cheaper in supermarkets.
Children and the elderly are entitled to cheap train tickets.
The scheme is simple and cheap to operate.
The house rent is very cheap.
low in price and quality
I bought some cheap wine to cook with.
The "luxury hotel" from the advertisement happened to be a dirty, cheap hotel with no lift (notice that all the rooms were located on the 4th floor) and no service.
to behave in a dishonest way in order to get what you want
Anyone caught cheating will be immediately disqualified from the exam.
She was caught cheating in her French exam.
He cheats at cards.
She also didn't want to cheat during the exam because it wouldn't be fair to anyone.
to examine something to make sure it is correct or the way it should be
Always check your oil, water and tyres before taking your car on a long trip.
I always check (that) I've shut the windows before I leave the house.
After I'd finished the exam, I checked my answers for mistakes.
The doctor will call next week to check on your progress.
I think I left it in your bedroom. Can you check, please?
to find out about something
I rang them yesterday to check when they were arriving.
If you're near the garage, could you check whether the car's ready?
I called the company to check whether I really had won the jackpot.
to ask someone for permission to do something
I'd like to stay overnight, but I need to check with my parents.
I'll be there at 4.00 the next day which will be the 5th. Would you check with your neighbours again, please?
an examination of something in order to make certain that it is correct or the way it should be
The soldiers gave their equipment a final check before setting off.
We do safety checks on all our electrical equipment.
Security checks have become really strict at the airport.
I have to do some medical checks on my dog because I think it is very sick and may have a problem with its throat.
the place at an airport where you show your ticket so that you can be told where you will be sitting
A representative from the tour operator will meet you at the check-in.
I'll meet you by the check-in counter.
After we had finished having coffee, we went to the check-in.
the place at an airport where you show your ticket so that you can be told where you will be sitting
A representative from the tour company will meet you at the check-in.
I'll meet you at the check-in desk.
After we had finished having coffee, we went to the check-in.
the place in a shop, especially a large food shop, where you pay for your goods
Your fruit and vegetables will be weighed at the checkout.
She works on the checkout at the local supermarket.
Your visit to the shop concludes in a long queue to the checkout (where you can easily spend another 30 minutes), where they will suck out some money from your account.
the place on a website where you order and pay for goods
After you've chosen what you want, click here to proceed to checkout.
the soft part of your face which is below your eye and between your mouth and ear
rosy cheeks
The tears ran down her cheeks.
He kissed her on both cheeks.
I kissed him on the cheek and I left him.
slightly rude or showing no respect, but often in a funny way
She's got such a cheeky grin.
Don't be so cheeky!
Don't get angry, but I think your husband is a very cheeky man!
to give a loud shout of approval or encouragement
Everyone cheered as the winners received their medals.
He was cheering for the other side.
When she had finished, she felt satisfied and so did the audience who cheered for Louise.
a shout of approval or encouragement
His speech was drowned out by cheers.
They were welcomed onto the stage in their home town by deafening cheers from their fans.
happy and positive
He's usually fairly cheerful.
You're in a cheerful mood this morning.
She manages to stay cheerful despite everything.
Her fiancé is very kind and cheerful.
describes a place or thing that is bright and pleasant and makes you feel positive and happy
The doctor's waiting room was bright and cheerful with yellow walls and curtains.
We can have a mixed coloured carpet to make the reception area more cheerful.
in a cheerful way
She walked down the road, whistling cheerfully.
But Mr Robertson recognised Jane and greeted her very cheerfully.
the state of being happy or bright and pleasant to look at
His cheerfulness made us all feel better.
Bright colours are identified with cheerfulness and happiness and dark colours with sadness or feeling down.
a friendly expression said just before you drink an alcoholic drink
Cheers! To your good health.
used to mean 'goodbye'
"Bye." "Cheers, see you next week."
See you later, cheers.
used to mean 'thank you'
"I've bought you a drink." "Cheers, mate."
a food made from milk, which can either be firm or soft and is usually yellow or white in colour
a slice of cheese
goat's cheese
I like soft French cheeses such as Brie and Camembert.
I prefer hard cheeses, like Cheddar.
cheese and biscuits
In a salad, I like onion, carrots, beans, garlic, green salad, sunflower oil and cheese.
a skilled and trained cook who works in a hotel or restaurant, especially the most important cook
He is one of the top chefs in Britain.
She is the head chef at the Waldorf-Astoria.
I want to study cooking, because I want to be a chef. (1983224; Skills for Life (Entry 2); ; A2 WAYSTAGE; 2007; Cantonese; ?)
a basic substance that is used in chemistry or produced by chemistry
The government has pledged to reduce the amount of chemicals used in food production.
Each year, factories release millions of tonnes of toxic chemicals into the atmosphere.
There are a lot of chemicals and sewage in the river Dollmitz and the lakes, too.
relating to chemicals
a chemical reaction
chemical weapons
The chemical industry produces such things as petrochemicals, drugs, paint and rubber.
In the latter many chemical reactions may be reproduced to show the students the final compounds generated.
a shop where you can buy medicines, make-up and products used for washing yourself
Could you call in at the chemist and get some plasters?
We can meet at the bus stop, in front of the chemist.
a person who studies chemistry, or a scientist who works with chemicals or studies their reactions
Is he a chemist or a physicist?
I had been working in a factory because I am a chemist, but one day I decided to change my work and my life.
the scientific study of substances and the different ways in which they react or combine with other substances
She studied chemistry at university.
the chemistry of the ozone layer
a chemistry department/laboratory
On the day of her birthday, I will ask her to help me with my homework for chemistry (she is really smart).
a piece of paper printed by a bank that you use instead of money to pay for things
I wrote him a cheque for £50.
I don't have any cash on me, so could I pay by cheque?
Please make your cheques payable to The Brighter Toyshop Ltd.
I'll send you the cheque next week.
a small, round, soft red or black fruit with a single hard seed in the middle
cherry trees
There was a big cherry tree, and there, on the top, was Trouble the cat!
a game that two people play by moving differently shaped pieces around a board of black and white squares
Do you play chess?
a chess player/set
My favourite hobby is playing chess.
the front part of your body, between your neck and your waist, containing your heart and your lungs
He was shot in the chest.
Peter has a very hairy chest.
She went to the doctor complaining of chest pains.
She tried to get her weapon, but then a bullet hit her chest like a hammer.
to tell someone about something that you have been worried or angry about for a long time
Tell me what's wrong - you'll feel better if you get it off your chest.
Chris is always caring and lends you his ear if there's something you need to get off your chest.
a strong, usually wooden, container with a lid, used for keeping things in
a treasure chest
The woman opened a heavy wooden chest and produced the book, after trying to sweep off a little of the dirt.
a piece of furniture for keeping clothes in
We need a chest of drawers for Oliver's bedroom.
I bought a chest of drawers and put it next to the door.
to crush food into smaller, softer pieces with the teeth so that it can be swallowed
This meat is difficult to chew.
You don't chew your food enough - that's why you get indigestion.
Next, when you eat something, please chew it for a long time.
to repeatedly bite something without swallowing it
She was chewing gum.
Our dog loves a bone to chew (on).
She sat in the dentist's waiting room, nervously chewing (at) her nails.
Students couldn't chew bubble-gum, smoke or eat sweeties in school, but they do now.
a sweet that you chew but do not swallow
Would you like a piece/stick of chewing gum?
Some visitors to the zoo feed them with forbidden things like sugar or they give them chewing gum.
a type of bird kept on a farm for its eggs or its meat
A male chicken is called a cock and a female chicken is called a hen.
the meat of a chicken
We're having roast/fried chicken for dinner.
I'd like to eat chicken and chips.
most important or main
The chief problem we have in the area now is the spread of disease.
The weather was our chief reason for coming here.
This is the chief argument of those who do not agree with zoos.
highest in rank
He is the chief economic adviser to the government.
Bob Wilson, the chief accountant, had resigned.
the person in charge of a group or organization
a police chief
A new chief of the security forces has just been appointed.
I saw her one day, and she told me that she had been promoted to chief of section.
a boy or girl who is not yet an adult, or a son or daughter of any age
an eight-year-old child
As a child I didn't eat vegetables.
A small group of children waited outside the door.
Both her children are now married with children of their own.
Jan is married with three young children.
My children are very happy because they are going to school every day.
the time when someone is a child
She had an unhappy childhood.
Childhood is not always a happy time.
The e-mail was from somebody who I haven't heard about since my childhood.
Childish behaviour is silly, like that of a small child.
Don't be so childish!
In comparison with other countries' tourists, they seem to be a little childish, just like a group of ducklings or chickens.
typical of a child
childish handwriting
I heard a childish voice saying to me "Take my hand."
to relax completely, or not allow things to upset you
Chill out, Dad - if we miss this train there's always another one.
I just can't wait to get there, grab some Coke and chill out!
a cold feeling
There's a definite chill in the air.
a sudden frightened feeling
The scream sent a chill down my spine.
A chill went down my spine.
a small, thin, red or green vegetable that is added to food in order to make it hot and spicy
chilli pepper
I know that in England you do not eat food with a lot of chilli, so you should not eat a lot of it.
unpleasantly cold
a chilly evening
Apart from everything mentioned, the worst thing was the fact that our coach broke down in the middle of nowhere on a chilly rainy day.
a hollow structure that allows the smoke from a fire inside a building to escape to the air outside
Factory chimneys belched dense white smoke into the sky.
The reason is half for my own health and fitness and half for the health of my town, which is polluted by lead, the smoke from chimneys and other artificial poisons.
the bottom part of a person's face, below their mouth
Fasten the strap beneath your chin.
She sat behind the table, her chin resting in her hands.
I'm just about 20cm taller and I've grown whiskers on my chin, which is quite an uncommon look.
a long thin piece of potato that is cooked in oil
fish and chips
I like to eat fish and chips.
a very small part of a computer that stores information
a silicon chip
Even in cars and washing machines there're computer chips.
to blame other people for something bad that has happened to you and continue to feel angry about it
She's always had a real chip on her shoulder because she didn't go to university.
I suppose that I have a chip on my shoulder!
If several people chip in, they each give money to pay for something together.
We all chipped in to buy our teacher a present.
If you say it's on you they will offer to chip in and you can always say politely: "Sure, why not."
a sweet, usually brown, food that is prepared and sold in a block, or a small sweet made from this
a bar of chocolate
chocolate biscuits
milk/dark/white chocolate
I took her a box of chocolates.
I like chocolate and ice-cream with fruit.
a sweet drink made with chocolate and hot milk
Two hot chocolates and a cappuccino, please.
We like to drink tea or hot chocolate.
when you can choose between two or more things, or the decision to choose one thing or person and not someone or something else
If I had a choice, I'd give up work.
I had to go - I had no choice.
It's a difficult choice to make.
It's your choice/The choice is yours.
It was a choice between black or brown.
Given the choice, I'd stay at home.
I'd prefer not to work Saturdays but I don't have much choice.
I'm single by choice.
I'm very sorry that I can't make the choice for you.
the range of different things from which you can choose
There wasn't much choice on the menu.
The evening menu offers a wide choice of dishes.
The dress is available in a choice of colours.
There is a very wide choice of activities!
a person or thing that has been chosen or that can be chosen
Harvard was not his first choice.
He wouldn't be my choice as a friend.
This type of nursery care may well be the best choice for your child.
For me, the best choice is to come to the city.
a group of people who sing together, often in a church or a school
He sings in the church choir.
choir practice
I have sung in the church's choir for three years, and I have had singing classes at school since first grade.
a type of fat in your body that can cause heart disease if you have too much
The doctor said I had high cholesterol.
Hong Kong people have become fatter and fatter due to the adoption of Western food which is rich in fat and cholesterol.
to decide what you want from two or more things or possibilities
Danny, come here and choose your ice cream.
I had to choose between fish or lamb.
There were so many colours to choose from.
It's difficult choosing where to live.
I've chosen Luis a present./I've chosen a present for Luis.
He's been chosen as the team's new captain.
The firm's directors chose Emma to be the new production manager.
Katie chose to stay away from work that day.
You can choose between red or black. I chose the black one.
to decide to do something
Manuela chose to take a job in Paris.
to cut something into pieces with an axe, knife, or other sharp instrument
He was chopping wood in the yard.
Add some fresh parsley, finely chopped.
Chop (up) the onions and carrots roughly.
You would use them to chop vegetables.
a boring job that you must do
I find cooking a real chore.
The speed of "modern" life has increased and we do not have enough time to do the chores like ironing any more.
A chronic illness or problem continues for a long time.
a chronic shortage of nurses
chronic back pain
The daily and nightly disturbance of our lives causes chronic fatigue and high levels of irritation among the people, thus creating a most unwanted situation which should be ended as soon as possible.
a building for Christian religious activities
The town has four churches.
a church hall
She goes to church every Sunday.
But the most interesting place is a very old garden, because there is a beautiful church from the 16th century.
a small paper tube filled with cut pieces of tobacco, which people smoke
a packet of cigarettes
She lit a cigarette.
It's pink and I like it because it is as small as a cigarette packet.
a building where you go to watch films
We could go to the cinema.
The town no longer has a cinema.
a cinema ticket
If she has any free time she likes going to the cinema.
the art or business of making films
an article about French cinema
In my opinion, this is a really fascinating film, not only for nature and wildlife lovers, but for everybody who likes good cinema.
a continuous curved line, the points of which are always the same distance away from a fixed central point, or the area inside such a line
Coloured paper was cut into circles, squares and triangles.
We sat in a circle.
She asked us to sit in a circle.
a group of people with family, work or social connections
She's not one of my close circle of friends.
It's a technical term used in medical circles.
His name is Omar Naber and he has quite a big circle of fans in Slovenia, although most of them are kids.
to draw a circle around something
Circle the answer you think is correct.
to move in a circle, often around something
Birds circled above the trees.
Huge waves from the Atlantic were smashing into the cliffs with a deafening roar, while birds circled the sky high above us.
a path, route, or sports track that is shaped like a circle
There is a fitness circuit in the woods.
And so it was no wonder that I went to the Suzuka circuit where the F-1 Grand Prix was held, which had already become one of the biggest events at that time.
a complete circle that an electric current travels around
an electrical circuit
Apparently there was a short circuit to the elevator circuit, as we were to learn later from the store supervisor.
a regular series of places or events that people involved in a particular activity go to
the tennis circuit
Soon after, while he attended high school, he was already playing the New Jersey Club circuit, already showing traces of his persistence.
shaped like a circle
a circular rug
People who congratulate the marrying couple take a circular sweet.
used to describe an argument which keeps returning to the same points and is not effective
a circular argument/theory
This tautology is problematic because a circular argument cannot be tested or falsified.
the movement of blood around your body
Exercise improves your circulation.
This is a very unhealthy habit, because we could have some problems with our circulation and also we could suffer from pains in the joints.
the number of copies of a newspaper or magazine that are sold each day, week, etc.
The paper's circulation has fallen recently.
Being on top of the media world is something that has required hard work and competence and in a business where newspaper circulation depends on the political profile of the paper, he is not afraid of making a comment on current affairs.
a fact or event that makes a situation the way it is
I think she coped very well under the circumstances.
She died in suspicious circumstances.
We oppose capital punishment in/under any circumstances.
Under no circumstances should you approach the man.
The meeting has been cancelled due to circumstances beyond our control.
This party is being organised by my class for your husband's birthday, but there is something you should know, this party is a surprise so under no circumstances should you inform your husband about this.
a show in which a group of people and animals perform in a large tent
a circus ring
The children loved being taken to the circus.
In the afternoon you can just go walking if you are not in a mood to do something exciting, but if are, you can go to the circus.
someone who lives in a particular town or city
The citizens of Moscow woke up this morning to find they had a new government.
I think that it is a really good idea to make a film about our town and its citizens.
someone who has a legal right to live in a particular country
He applied to become an American citizen.
I'm an American citizen because my mother comes from Queens, New York.
a large town
the city of Boston
the city centre
Wellington is the capital city of New Zealand.
I visit this city every year in June.
relating to the ordinary people or things in a country and not to military or religious organizations
They married in a civil ceremony.
The wedding will occur first in the church, and then in front of the Mayor, who will personally come to the castle for the civil wedding.
someone who is not a member of a military organization or the police
Several civilians were killed in the attack.
Twenty peple were killed in an ambush on a UN convoy transferring injured civilians to the country's central hospital.
human society with its well developed social organizations, or the culture and way of life of a society or country at a particular period in time
Some people think that nuclear war would mean the end of civilization.
Cuzco was the centre of one of the world's most famous civilizations, that of the Incas.
ancient civilizations
Since the beginning of civilization, man has been looking for comfort and better ways to do things.
when people have an advanced and comfortable way of life
modern civilization
Even if this idea is idealistic, some think that they will take advantage of all the benefits of modern civilization.
to say that something is true or is a fact, although you cannot prove it and other people might not believe it
The company claims (that) it is not responsible for the pollution in the river.
He claims to have met the President, but I don't believe him.
An unknown terrorist group has claimed responsibility for this morning's bomb attack.
All parties have claimed success in yesterday's elections.
Bicycle supporters claim that it is silent and keeps owners fit.
to ask for something because it belongs to you or you think you have the right to have it
She claimed £1,500 in expenses.
Don't forget to claim (for) your travelling expenses after the interview.
The number of people claiming unemployment benefit has risen sharply this month.
If the shop won't give me a replacement TV, I'll claim my money back.
I also would like to claim a refund for the evening.
to say that you have done or achieved something
No one has claimed responsibility for yesterday's bomb attack.
a written request asking an organization to pay you a sum of money which you believe they owe you
an insurance claim
a claim for compensation
I've made a claim on my insurance.
This wasn't "my perfect evening out", and I would like to make a claim for half the money back.
a statement that something is true or is a fact, although other people might not believe it
She rejected claims that she had lied.
Can you give any evidence to support your claim?
He made wild claims about being able to cure cancer.
To correct your claims about our target figure and the result of the day, I enclose a sheet displaying an income pie chart.
to hit your hands together, often repeatedly, especially in order to show you enjoyed a performance
The audience clapped and cheered for more.
"When I clap my hands, you must stand still," said the teacher.
Everything was nice till I clapped my hands to call the waiter to get the bill.
a sudden, loud sound that is made by thunder
We heard a clap of thunder.
Suddenly, I heard a loud clap of thunder.
an explanation which makes something clearer or easier to understand
Please contact this office again if you require further clarification.
Our lawyer has advised us to seek clarification on the matter.
If any tricky questions come up you simply stay calm and ask for a clarification.
to make something easier to understand by explaining it
The law aims to clarify building regulations.
Could you clarify this situation for me, please?
the quality of being clear and easy to understand
She described the process with great clarity.
Jonathon, the eldest, is like his mother (and for that matter, like his father too!) a verbally very gifted person who already expresses himself with great clarity and a lot of understanding and afterthought as well as creativity.
to fight or argue
Government troops clashed with rebel soldiers.
Many young people clash with their parents over what time they must be home at night.
From the very beginning their two characters clashed and the relationship had only been deteriorating.
If colours or styles clash, they do not look good together.
You can't wear pink lipstick - it clashes with your dress.
She wore lemon green trousers and a pink top and she didn't seem to mind that those colours clashed.
If two events clash, they happen at the same time so that you cannot go to them both.
Emma's party clashes with my brother's wedding.
a fight or argument
There were violent clashes between the police and demonstrators.
Firstly, it has to be considered that Things fall apart is set in the 1890s and it portrays the clash between white colonialists and the indigenous Igbo people.
when ideas or qualities are very different, and this causes problems
a clash of personalities
Since people's material interests are similar, having competitiveness as the only measurement for personal virtue only creates an endless competition that eventually will lead to a clash of interests.
a group of students who have lessons together
Which class are you in this year?
She gave the whole class extra homework for a week.
My class was/were rather noisy this morning.
Okay, class, settle down and open your books.
I have some friends in the class.
a period of time in which students are taught something
My last class ends at 4 o'clock.
I was told off for talking in class.
Who takes/teaches your environmental studies class?
I missed my aerobics class yesterday.
I have one class a week with Miss Liz, she is my teacher.
a group into which goods, services or people are put according to their standard
first-/second- class mail
a business/economy class ticket
All the vegetables we sell are Class A.
a group of people within society who have the same economic and social position
The Labour Party has lost a lot of support among the working class.
We live in a middle class neighbourhood.
She belonged to the rich American upper class.
The second film is called "Upper class first" and it describes how rich people live.
to put someone or something in a particular group according to their qualities
The tower is classed as a historic monument.
All things considered, the Day could be classed as a success.
A classic book, film, etc. is one that has been popular for a long time and is considered to be of a high quality.
a classic film/novel/story
I am fond of reading different books, especially classic literature.
a piece of writing, a musical recording or a film which has been popular for a long time and is considered to be of a high quality
Jane Austen's 'Pride and Prejudice' is a classic of English literature.
Many of the Rolling Stones' records have become rock classics.
Wuthering Heights is a classic, which everybody knows about.
music that is considered to be part of a formal European tradition, written by people like Mozart and Stravinsky
I'm not a fan of classical music.
I like pop and classical music.
traditional in style
classical and modern dance
Marie discovered South Indian classical dance at the age of 30, which is quite late.
the process of putting people or things into groups by their type, size, etc., or one of these groups
the classification of plants
Cinema attendance between 1990 and the present, with projections to 2010, is reported with the classification of four age groups: (i) 14-24 years old (ii) 25-34 years old (iii) 35-49 years old (iv) over 50 years old respectively.
to put people or things into groups by their type, size, etc.
A third of the population has been classified as poor.
The books are classified by subject.
The paintings will be classified according to their subject and our guests will have the chance to see them and talk with the creators.
someone who is in your class at school or college
He went on a school trip with his classmates.
Our classmates, Christine, Alice, Michael and Peter were there.
a room in a school or college where groups of students are taught
The classrooms are large and have big windows.
I don't like my classroom on the 2nd floor.
a group of words containing a subject and a verb, that is usually only part of a sentence
In the sentence 'I can't cook very well but I make quite good omelettes', both 'I can't cook very well' and 'I make quite good omelettes' are main clauses.
In the sentence 'I'll get you some stamps if I go to town', 'if I go to town' is a subordinate clause.
not dirty
a clean white shirt
clean air/water
Make sure your hands are clean before you have your dinner.
I like this place, because I have got a beautiful room. It is very clean and nice.
showing that you have not done anything illegal
a clean driving licence
Of course, it is a strain to portray a clean image and avoid scandals.
to remove dirt from something
I'm going to clean the windows this morning.
You should always clean your teeth after meals.
He asked her to help him clean out the cupboards.
She cleans the house every day.
someone whose job is to clean houses, offices, public places, etc.
Our cleaner comes on Wednesdays.
I am working in Romford Abbey bank as a cleaner.
a shop where clothes are cleaned with chemicals
I took my dress to the cleaner's.
easy to understand, hear, read or see
clear instructions/directions
Can we make the sound any clearer?
These photos are very clear.
It's clear and easy to use.
If something is clear, you can see through it.
clear glass
The water in the lake is so clear that you can see the bottom.
I go to there every year, because the water of the lake is very clear and I like swimming in this lake.
A clear sky does not have any clouds.
clear blue skies
When we went to San Martin de los Andes, we could see seven lakes and different kinds of trees and the sky was always clear.
certain or obvious
Are you clear about how to get there?
It's clear that she's not interested.
I'm still not clear what I'm supposed to do.
Are you clear about the questions?
not covered or blocked by anything
a clear road
a clear desk
While banning the private cars brings with it less congestion, less air pollution and clear roads, it also carries major concerns for people's travelling needs. Should there not be a proper transport infrastructure in place in the city?
extremely clear
crystal clear water
You will be amazed by the crystal clear water of the shallow sea and the multitude of colourful fish which you will see as you are exploring the bottom of the sea.
very easy to understand
She made it crystal clear that she was in charge.
They do learn something of course, but it is crystal clear that they need some help from you to develop their ability, creativity, sensitivity and so on.
to remove all the objects or people from a place
It took several hours to clear the road after the accident.
I'll make the coffee if you'll clear the table.
I cleared the snow from the path.
Could you clear your things off the sofa?
I cleared the stage before the concert, but you can't imagine how it looked after it?!!! Full of flowers, hats, underwear, etc.
If an argument or discussion clears the air, people feel less angry or upset after it.
It was an unpleasant argument, but at least it cleared the air.
I rushed into the room to cheer them up and clear the air, although I knew it was too late.
not in a difficult situation or having problems any more
We have had money problems but we should be in the clear by next year.
"You're in the clear, you don't have to be afraid any more", it said.
to avoid someone or something because they are unpleasant or dangerous
Steer clear of Tony this morning - he's in a bad mood.
Eating healthily doesn't mean starving, eating plants or steering clear of meat.
in a way that is easy to see, hear, read or understand
He spoke very clearly.
I can't see clearly without them.
in a way that is not confused
I'd had two hours' sleep and wasn't thinking clearly.
But I don't remember clearly.
used to show that you think something is obvious or certain
The accident was clearly the lorry driver's fault.
Clearly, he's very talented.
It was clearly not for me, because it came from a girl called Carol who wanted to talk to some guy named John.
able to learn and understand things quickly and easily
Both children were clever.
She was very clever at maths.
He's a student at the university, he's a nice guy - friendly, clever, and helpful.
effective and showing intelligence
a clever idea
I've got a clever little gadget for opening jars.
My friend told me that he saw a really nice loft bed. I think it's a clever idea.
something that is said or done too often, so that it becomes boring or without meaning
Her writing is full of clichés.
Prejudices and clichés are part of our state of mind, they travel with us and we won't avoid them by going abroad.
said or done too often and therefore boring or without real meaning
He made some clichéd remark about the birth of his first child completely changing his life.
Well, I do agree with this clichéd wording.
to press on part of a computer mouse to make the computer do something
If you want to open a file, click twice on the icon for it.
When you have selected the file you want, click the 'Open' box.
I did click to e-mail and then the monitor colour changed to black.
to suddenly understand something
Suddenly everything clicked and I realized where I'd met him.
Now it all clicked into place... Those flimsy excuses he gave her: "No, this Saturday I can't make it."
to make a short, sharp sound, or to use something to make this sound
The door clicked shut behind him.
The back-door key clicked when I unlocked the door.
If two people click, they like each other immediately.
We met at college and we just clicked.
She went to a house party and they met there. They clicked immediately and the next day they were calling each other or at least that's what my mum said to me.
a press on part of a computer mouse
You can get the information with a single click.
I could have written a letter in a bottle but waiting for the answer would take a decade, now it's just a click of a button.
someone who pays someone else for services or advice
We're losing a lot of our clients.
The motto of the staff there is: "the client is always right."
a high area of rock with a very steep side, often on a coast
Keep well away from the edge of the cliff.
the cliff edge
This hotel is on a cliff, and has good views.
the weather conditions that an area usually has
a hot/dry/cold/wet climate
The Mediterranean climate is good for growing citrus fruits and grapes.
The climate of Brazil is typically tropical so the weather is gorgeous.
the situation, feelings, and opinions that exist at a particular time
the political/social climate
Terrorism creates a climate of fear.
Hence the Narrator lives in a more peaceful period than Olivia's and only in this context could Olivia's experiences be regarded as more stimulating because they are inevitably involved with the unstable political climate.
the way the Earth's weather is changing
Climate change is the greatest environmental challenge facing the world today.
to use your legs, or your legs and hands, to go up or onto the top of something
to climb a ladder/a mountain/the stairs/a tree
She climbed up on a chair to change the light bulb.
It is better if you can wear a T-shirt and short pants so it is easier to climb.
to move into or out of a small space, often with difficulty or effort
The baby had managed to climb out of his cot.
They climbed into the truck and drove away.
I went to my car, climbed into it and wanted to drive, but nothing happened.
to go up, or to go towards the top of something
The plane climbed quickly to a height of 30 000 feet.
As it leaves the village, the road climbs steeply up the mountain.
The sun climbed higher in the sky.
the sport of climbing mountains, hills or rocks
rock/mountain climbing
We're going climbing in Scotland next weekend.
My hobbies are climbing and jogging.
to hold someone or something tightly, especially because you are frightened
She was found clinging to the ledge.
I clung on to his hand in the dark.
I had clung to my father ever since I was born.
a building, often part of a hospital, where people go for medical treatment or advice
Bring your baby to the clinic and we'll take a look at her.
Antenatal clinics provide care for pregnant women.
Ahmed was travelling to attend a fair of medical equipment, to get what he needed for his clinic.
relating to medical treatment and tests
clinical trials/research
Doctors, for example, travel to get better qualifications, new medical skills and clinical experience.
only considering facts and not influenced by feelings or emotions
a clinical approach/attitude
She seems to have a very clinical attitude towards her children.
a piece of equipment that shows you what time it is, usually in a house or on a building and not worn by a person
I could hear the clock ticking.
The town-hall clock says 9 o'clock.
I think the kitchen clock is fast/slow.
The clock began to strike twelve.
She set her clock by the time signal on the radio.
I want to sell a clock that is ten years old.
all day and all night
Rescue teams are working round the clock to search for survivors of the earthquake.
It is undeniable that people are working around the clock in order to earn a living.
If something closes, it moves so that it is not open, and if you close something, you make it move so that it is not open.
Could you close the door/window please?
Close your eyes - I've got a surprise for you.
It's a Motorola mobile phone. It's pink and you can open and close it.
When a shop, restaurant or public place closes, people cannot go into it.
The banks had closed so I couldn't get any money out.
The museum closes at 5.30.
Well you have to be here in my house at 1pm, because the sports centre opens at 1.30pm and closes at 4pm.
If a business or organization closes, or if someone or something closes it, it stops operating.
The factory closed over ten years ago.
A lot of restaurants/shops are closing because they can't afford to pay the rent.
In addition, I would like you to know that the Hotel Astrid closed last year.
to end, or to end something
She closed the meeting with a short speech.
That's how you should close the exhibition: with a question. How much further can Arnold go?
near in distance, position or time
His house is close to the sea.
Don't get too close to the dog, Rosie.
It was close to lunchtime when we arrived.
It's close to my house.
describes people who know each other very well and like each other a lot, or who see and talk to each other a lot
Mira is one of my closest friends.
Her relationship isn't good with her father, but she's very close to her mother.
My brother and I have become much closer over the years.
That night, we had just my family and some of my close friends.
A close relative is someone who is directly related to you, for example, your mother, father or brother.
There weren't many people at the funeral - just close family/relatives.
Tomson has a close family, his son lives with them, and his company makes a good profit.
seeing or communicating with someone a lot
I'm still in close contact with my school friends.
Our school has close links with a school in China.
Being in close touch with me for such a long time, you should have known everything about the band.
having only a small difference
The election results were so close they had to vote again.
He came second in the race, but it was very close.
The youngest boys are so close in age they look like twins.
The over-grazing, the deforestation and the over-cultivation seem to be the main causes of the degradation of the agricultural land, the percentages being quite close in value.
to almost achieve or do something
We are close to reaching an agreement.
We were very close to reaching our objective.
If someone or something is close to a particular state, they are almost in that state.
She was close to tears.
'Do you love me?' 'Of course I do. I've always loved you.' Adrian answered. He was close to tears.
looking at or listening to someone or something very carefully
On close inspection, you could see that the painting was a fake.
Keep a close watch on the children.
If the parents keep a close watch on their children's activities and friends and advise them what is right or wrong, this will prevent them from indulging in bad activities.
near in distance
Come a bit closer.
He stayed close to his mother.
There's a great beach close by.
Aunty told me that there is a Hindu temple close by.
not open
The door was closed.
Her eyes were closed so I thought she was asleep.
We arrived home very tired but the door was closed and my parents weren't there.
not open for business
All the shops were closed, so we couldn't buy any food.
We came back to the cinema, but it was closed, so I think I will never find my precious bracelet.
not wanting to accept new ideas, people, customs, etc.
a closed mind
But if we travel with a closed mind, we will be contrasting everything, always having in mind that our things are the best.
privately and not in public
Most of the deals were done behind closed doors.
Decisions which affect the whole world are made behind closed doors and are top secret.
in a way that is directly connected or has a strong relationship
English and German are closely related.
Both politicians have been closely associated with the movement for some time.
We are working closely with the police.
The main reason I am applying for this job is that this job would be very rewarding on a personal level and would give me useful experience closely related to my field of study.
in a way that is very near in distance, time, or position
Elke came into the room, closely followed by her children.
According to statistical figures, Germany is better off as compared to the USA and closely followed by Spain in the management of Government spending.
carefully and paying attention to details
Pollution levels are closely monitored.
If you look closely, you can see where he painted over his signature.
I think that working for High Travel as its interpreter would be a great experience if the company decides to look closely at the conditions of its employees and of its travellers.
the state of being close in distance, time, or position
We bought the house because of its closeness to my office.
To resize and relocate the coffee bar and the sauna are excellent ideas - a larger coffee bar provides us with a better relaxing area and the closeness of the sauna to the swimming pool saves us from walking a long way from the pool when we are all wet and cold.
the quality of knowing someone very well and liking them a lot
A special closeness is said to exist between twins.
Fred resented the closeness of the sisters, he wanted Susan for himself.
when a business, organization, etc. stops operating
factory closures
The company announced the closure of its Paris office.
A supermarket with a multi-storey car park would lead to the closure of other smaller supermarkets and shops like the greengrocer's and consequently many people would lose their jobs.
material made from cotton, wool, etc. and used, for example, to make clothes or curtains
a piece/length of cloth
We will probably be wearing dresses made of synthetic cloth in 2100.
a small piece of material used for cleaning or drying things
a washing-up cloth
There's milk on the floor over there - could you get a cloth and mop it up?
items such as shirts, dresses and trousers that you wear on your body
She wears smart/casual clothes.
I'm just putting my clothes on.
Take your clothes off and get in the bath, Holly.
a clothes shop
And she likes to wear new clothes.
clothes, especially of a particular type
Protective clothing must be worn at all times.
You can only take three articles/items of clothing into the changing room.
Nowadays the aim in clothing is not just for covering and protecting ourselves.
a white or grey mass in the sky, made of very small drops of water
Do you think those are rain clouds on the horizon?
The sky was a perfect blue - not a cloud in sight.
Dark clouds massed on the horizon.
Except for the first day, the sun was with us all the time, with absolutely no cloud in the sky.
a mass of something such as dust or smoke that looks like a cloud
A huge cloud of smoke from burning oil tanks stretched across the sky.
Some of them leave behind a large cloud of smoke and it damages our health.
to be extremely happy and excited
After I heard I'd got the job, I was on cloud nine!
But now, after the promise in which both said "yes", she was on cloud nine.
to make someone confused, or make something harder to understand
to cloud someone's judgment/vision
Having their judgment somewhat clouded by hormones should not take precedence over all other concerns.
When it is cloudy, there are clouds in the sky.
This morning was lovely but it's quite cloudy out there now.
The weather is cold and the sky is always cloudy.
a performer who has special clothes and a painted face and makes people laugh
a circus clown
My dad hired a clown and a magician.
an organization for people who want to take part in a sport or social activity together, or the building they use for this
I've just joined the local golf/squash/tennis club.
a health and fitness club
Visitors must be accompanied by club members.
I'd like to visit the sports club near your house.
a team of sports players
Stockport County Football Club
The Orioles are an exciting club this year.
The club is Juventus and as you know, it is my favourite football team.
a place open late at night where people can dance
After the show, we went to a club.
As regards the food, you can ask for any kind of food and after midnight it turns into a club where you can dance to any kind of music.
a sign or some information that helps you to solve a problem or answer a question
Police are searching the area for clues to the murder.
Police are still looking for clues in their search for the missing girl.
I'm never going to guess the answer if you don't give me a clue.
They found it and they started looking for more clues.
to be completely unable to guess, understand, or deal with something
I haven't a clue what you're talking about.
I haven't a clue about it.
the quality of being clumsy
The accident was caused by her clumsiness.
Then I wanted to skip with her and the girls but my clumsiness made me flush and I left the rope and returned to my boys' games.
Clumsy people move in a way that is not controlled or careful enough, and often knock or damage things.
That's the third glass you've smashed this week - you're so clumsy!
I was cleaning the house, and as you know, I'm very clumsy, so I was dusting the table, and, accidentally, I dropped the vase.
to hold something tightly
She clutched a coin.
It doesn't matter if you want to be an author, an actress clutching an Oscar or a farmer with a lot of chickens.
the part of a car or truck that you press with your foot when you change gear
I put my foot on the clutch.
I can remember very well when my father explained to me how to release the clutch and to press the accelerator very slowly and carefully: easy to say but...
If you are in someone or something's clutches, they control you, often in an evil way.
Keep your children out of his clutches.
However one must admit that living longer and evading the clutches of death has always been one of man's dreams.
a comfortable bus used to take groups of people on journeys
We're going to the airport by coach.
a coach trip
I'm travelling by coach and I'm arriving at half past eight.
someone whose job is to teach people to improve at a sport, skill, or school subject
a tennis/maths coach
Then the coach wanted to know some facts about me.
to teach someone so they improve at a sport, skill, or in a school subject
She coaches students in French, usually for exams.
I have also been coaching a girls team for 3 years.
additional teaching of a sport, a skill or a school subject
She has extra coaching in maths.
In Poland basketball is getting more and more popular and we feel the lack of coaching.
a hard, black substance that is dug from under the ground and burnt as fuel
a lump of coal
Mining for gold, coal or oil is an option for our economy.
the land next to or close to the sea
Rimini is a thriving holiday resort on the east coast of Italy.
The accident happened three miles off the coast.
We spent a week by/on the coast.
I think it's best to spend your time visiting our coast in the North East of Brazil.
situated on, or relating to the coast
a coastal town
I love to spend time at the beach and that is the reason why I live in a coastal area.
the part of the land along the edge of the sea
a rocky coastline
These buildings, which haven't been looked after and maintained for many years, give the coastline around Land's End an almost ghostlike atmosphere.
an outer piece of clothing with sleeves which is worn over other clothes, usually for warmth
a warm winter coat
Do your coat up, Joe, or you'll freeze.
Dear Mary, I've left my new coat in your house.
a very large nut with a hard, hairy shell, a white part that you eat, and liquid in the centre
Thai food uses a lot of coconut.
I forgot to tell you that they have a special dessert with coconut and ice cream.
a large sea fish that can be eaten
I'll have cod and chips, please.
I suggest 'batatas com bacalhau', which is cooked cod served with boiled potatoes.
a system of words, letters or signs which is used to represent a message in secret form
The message was written in code.
She managed to break/crack the code.
Everyone had already heard of me getting the secret access code for the 'Secret Society' organisation.
a set of rules on how to behave or how to do things
a code of conduct/practice
The club has a strict dress code.
Most of their manners, dress code, personal conduct and their general well-being is taught at school.
a popular hot drink with a strong smell that is made from dark beans, or the beans or crushed beans from which this drink is made
fresh/instant coffee
a cup of coffee
decaffeinated coffee
Can I get you a coffee ?
I'd like a black/white coffee, please.
How do you take your coffee?
I don't like drinking coffee.
the state of being clear and easy to understand
Her argument lacks any coherence.
the feeling that you share the beliefs or purpose of others in a group
There is no sense of coherence within the group.
Family gatherings can offer the individual a sense of warmth, of belonging and of coherence.
A coherent argument, plan, etc. is clear, and each part of it has been carefully considered.
We need to put forward a coherent plan.
In addition to the achievement of high academic status and a coherent identity, young people have to make friends, have love affairs and abide by social rules.
If someone is coherent, you can understand what they say.
She was so upset, she was barely coherent.
Once she was fairly calm, Anne tried to get a coherent story out of Louise, but Louise simply burst into tears afresh.
a small, flat, usually round piece of metal used as money
a 10p/ten pence coin
a pound coin
a ten-cent coin
gold coins
I asked for ten pounds in 20p coins.
The machine doesn't take 50p coins.
It was an old coin that my granny gave me three years ago.
to be the first person who uses a new word or phrase
The Czech playwright, Capek, coined the word 'robot'.
S. Czernick coined a term for such type of poetry - authenticism.
to happen at the same time as something else
The band's American tour coincided with the release of their second album.
This moment is of great significance for both characters and it coincides with the event which happens in the house.
When people's opinions or ideas coincide, they are the same.
Luckily, our views coincided.
I have become curious to know more about different cultures, I have learnt to respect opinions which may not coincide with mine.
when two very similar things happen at the same time but there is no reason for it
You chose exactly the same wallpaper as us - what a coincidence!
Just by coincidence, I met my old school-mate again fifty years later.
It was pure coincidence that we met.
What a coincidence, don't you think so?
a sweet, dark-brown drink with a lot of bubbles
We drank cola with our meal.
I can bring some cola.
having a low temperature
cold weather
a cold day
cold food/water
cold hands
My feet are so cold.
It's freezing cold today.
I like England because it is cold.
unfriendly or showing no emotion
She became quite cold and distant with me.
a cold stare/voice
Suddenly, I heard the same, cold voice behind me again.
in a cruel way, without showing any emotion
He shot three policemen in cold blood.
Returning to the story, when I arrived, I went directly to Hillton Avenue where I should have met 005, but when I arrived at the meeting point I found him lying on the floor with two shots in his back; he had been murdered in cold blood.
a common illness which makes you sneeze and makes your nose produce liquid
I've got a cold.
She said to me that was very important. Her mother had got a cold.
cold weather or temperatures
Don't stand out there in the cold - come in!
Because of the cold, some days I had to use gloves.
If something makes your blood run cold, it frightens you very much.
I heard a tapping on the window which made my blood run cold.
This thought scared me and made my blood run cold.
the state of having a low temperature
I was distracted by the coldness of my feet.
Firstly, there was an atmosphere of calm and happiness round: the ground was covered with snow, so that it made your steps quiet and the whole town seemed asleep under its white coat; besides it was so cold that you could actually smell the coldness in the air and it made you feel strong...
when someone is unfriendly or does not show their feelings
I was shocked by his father's coldness.
Contrary to this experience, I had experienced my mother's coldness through the other episode.
When two or more people collaborate, they work together to create or achieve the same thing.
Didn't you collaborate with him on one of your books?
Even if the staff they collaborated with were quite friendly and cheerful, all of them would prefer the jobs related with computers and new technology.
when two or more people work together to create or achieve the same thing, or a product of this
The show was a result of collaboration between several museums.
On the other hand, we encourage competition on the basis of team collaboration, to optimize the HR resources in the group, and maximize the individual's potential.
to fall down suddenly because of pressure or having no strength or support
Thousands of buildings collapsed in the earthquake.
The chair collapsed under her weight.
Then a sudden wave of fire made their heads explode and many buildings collapsed instantly.
If someone collapses, they fall down, usually because they are ill or weak.
He collapsed and died of a heart attack.
He desperately tried to keep the stalking sharks at bay, but he couldn't succeed, for the long fight exhausted him and he collapsed.
to fail to work or succeed
The peace talks have collapsed.
So, in the long run, the whole social system may collapse due to people's longer life.
the sudden failure of a system, organization, business, etc.
A poor economy has caused the collapse of thousands of small businesses.
Negotiations between the two countries are on the brink/verge of collapse.
He suffered a mental collapse after ten years' teaching.
After your nervous collapse last year I really worry about you.
the part of a shirt, coat, etc. that is usually folded over and goes round your neck
a shirt collar
a fur collar
It's a new, fashionable one with a high collar and short sleeves.
a strap made of leather or other strong material which is put around the neck of an animal, especially a dog or cat
a dog collar
I grabbed the dog by its collar and dragged it out of the room.
someone that you work with
We're entertaining some colleagues of Ben's tonight.
I need it for work and so that my colleagues can reach me.
to get and keep things of one type such as stamps or coins as a hobby
She collects dolls.
So when did you start collecting antique glass?
I like to collect dolls, you know that already.
to go to a place and bring someone or something away from it
I'll collect you from the station.
Your shoes will be repaired and ready for you to collect on Thursday.
Can I collect them on Sunday at 5 p.m?
to get things from different places and bring them together
Police collected a good deal of information during the investigation.
I collected up twenty bottles from various parts of the house.
The majority of people collect their own rubbish separately in their home, but they do not separate the paper and the cardboard.
to ask people to give you money for something, for example a charity
I'm collecting on behalf of Oxfam.
We're collecting (money) for the homeless.
And I think it's a perfect way to collect money for our poor people.
to get control over your feelings and thoughts
I'll give you a moment to collect your thoughts.
I had ... about 20 minutes so it would be plenty of time to collect my thoughts and calm down.
a group of objects of one type that have been collected by one person or in one place
a private art collection
a valuable stamp collection
I'm going to buy the DVD named "Lord of the Rings" because I like it very much and want to have it in my DVD collection.
a group of things or people
There's quite a collection of toothbrushes in the bathroom.
I wear long t-shirts and I have a collection of sweaters.
when something is taken away from a place
rubbish collection
We need a different organisation for the waste collection.
someone who collects objects because they are interesting or beautiful
a collector of modern art
a stamp collector
Anne has been a collector for many years and she knows almost everything about Swedish stamps.
a place where students are educated when they are between 16 and 18 years old, or after they have finished school
a sixth-form college
a teacher-training college
a Naval college
She's at art college.
Everybody from our college will be here.
a word or phrase that sounds natural or correct when it is used with another word or phrase, or the combination formed when two or more words are frequently used together in a way that sounds natural
'Heavy traffic' is a collocation.
a mark (:) used before a list, an example, an explanation, etc.
There's a colon missing in that sentence.
red, blue, green, yellow, etc.
What's your favourite colour?
She wears a lot of bright colours.
What colour are your eyes?
Does the shirt come in any other colour?
Are the photos in colour or black and white?
I use the colours black and red, because it's the colours of Flamenge Team.
with a very high score or with great success
He passed the entrance exam with flying colours.
I worked intensively on the course and I passed with flying colours.
interesting or exciting qualities or parts
We added your story for a bit of local colour.
For an uncomplicated meal and a spot of local colour, choose the Lion's Arms at 15, Heather Lane.
the colour of a person's skin, which shows their race
I don't care what colour her boyfriend is.
Since coming to England, I have been fortunate enough to meet so many people from all over the world. At first you try to see someone as a typical example of the country she is from, but as you get to know her better, you do not think about her race or colour any longer: it is her personality and human qualities that you are attracted to.
to make something a particular colour
He drew a heart and coloured it red.
I haven't changed a lot, just my hair is now quite short and I coloured it black.
to affect what someone does, says, or feels
Her views are coloured by her own bad experiences.
having bright colours
a colourful painting
She wears colourful clothes.
interesting and unusual
a colourful character
Computers make our modern life more colourful.
one of the blocks of print into which a page of a newspaper, magazine, or dictionary is divided
I didn't have time to read the whole article - just the first column.
To the editor, I am puzzled by the report which appeared on yesterday's page 2, second column, concerning the Westfield Music Festival.
a tall, solid, usually stone post which is often used to support a roof or as decoration in a building
The roof of the temple was held up by a row of thick stone columns.
Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square
There are a lot of columns outside and inside the restaurant, in Doric style.
any block of numbers or words written one under the other
the left-hand/right-hand column
Choose an adjective from Column A to use with a noun in Column B.
Put your expenditure in column B.
At the end of the course I had to complete a student questionnaire in which we had to tick in three columns, and the points were: good, adequate, needs improvement.
a flat piece of plastic, wood or metal with a thin row of long narrow parts along one side, which you use to tidy and arrange your hair
Has anyone seen my black comb?
I left my comb in your house.
to tidy your hair using a comb
She combed her hair and put on some lipstick.
I've been trying to comb out the knots in her hair.
I want to buy a mirror for my room because I need to see myself while I'm combing my hair.
a fight, especially during a war
The aircraft was shot down in combat.
Gaza is accessible only by car and because of the terrorists setting ambushes against any car, it is very difficult to supply the villages round the combat zone with food and medication.
to try to stop something unpleasant or harmful from happening or increasing
new measures to combat the rise in crime
Another way of combating the problem is to create recreational centres in which unemployed people can spend their time.
the mixture you get when two or more things are combined
Strawberries and cream - a perfect combination.
A combination of tiredness and boredom caused me to fall asleep.
This drug can be safely used in combination with other medicines.
Her experience and energy are a winning combination in business.
It has the winning combination of adventure in strange, far-off places, scientific discovery and humour.
to become mixed or joined, or to mix or join things together
My wages combined with your savings should just about pay for it.
The band combines jazz rhythms and romantic lyrics.
Boys wear jeans or longer shorts than girls, combined with patterned, cotton shirts.
to move or travel towards a person who is speaking or the place that they are speaking about
Come here!
She's coming this afternoon.
Look out - there's a car coming!
Can you come to my party?
If you're ever in Oxford, come and visit us.
I've come straight from the airport.
We have friends coming to stay this weekend.
The door opened and a nurse came into the room.
John will come and pick you up at 4 o'clock.
I can come to dinner tomorrow at 7 o'clock.
to go somewhere with the person who is speaking
Come with me.
Come for a walk with us.
Would you like to come to the cinema with Sarah and me?
Can you come with me to my Friend's house to play games tomorrow?
to arrive somewhere
Has she come yet?
When does the post come?
Hasn't his train come in yet?
When I came to Dorchester, the town was very pretty.
to be available to buy in a particular colour, size, etc.
Do these trousers come in any other colour?
This cuddly baby doll comes with her own blanket and bottle.
It's the latest digitalized model that comes with a remote control.
to have or achieve a particular position in a race, competition, list, etc.
She came second in the 100m race.
Z comes after Y in the alphabet.
Which king came after Edward?
April comes before May.
If a dream or hope comes true, it really happens.
I'd always dreamt of owning my own house, but I never thought it would come true.
After all the problems I'd had, Oliver's birth was a dream come true.
I had been dreaming of going to London since I started learning English, and now that my dream had come true, I was overhelmed by joy and feeling very lucky.
to happen
Spring has come early.
The worst problems are still/yet to come.
The announcement came at a bad time.
But worse was yet to come!
to be very easy for someone
Singing came naturally to Louise.
After a while, it came naturally: I could use words I had never seen written, just because I had picked them up in a conversation or watching a video programme.
to be the most important person or thing
Her career always comes first.
They do not take the time to sit down and enjoy being with their family. The work comes first, and the family next.
If an idea comes to mind, you think of it.
I was thinking about who might be suitable for this job, and your name came to mind.
Positives did come from that crisis - more efficient engines, lighter vehicles and lead-free petrol are just some of the examples that come to mind.
used to introduce a new idea that you want to say something about
When it comes to baking cakes, she's an expert.
But when it comes to computers, they just impose some knowledge on students, without any interaction.
used to ask why or how something has happened
How come you didn't go to the party?
Off the record: How come that your reporter can print such lies when knowing they are perhaps hurting certain people in this important matter?
used to say that you have just thought of something
Come to think of it, I've got two batteries that you can have upstairs.
Come to think of it, it really is quite difficult to say.
to start to do something or to reach a state after a period of time
I have come to rely on acupuncture.
This place has come to be known as 'Pheasant Corner'.
All the things she had been believing in until then had come to mean nothing, as gold turns into coal.
to become separated or removed from something
The book came apart in my hands.
The handle came off.
My shoelaces have come undone.
The door came open.
to start to exist
The new law comes into being next month.
Only with knowledge of the written word were villages able to organise themselves in larger forms of government, leading from local to regional to national levels, and finally leading to transnational structures as they came into being mostly during the last 100 years.
If information about something bad comes to light, it is discovered.
She knew that the fraud would eventually come to light.
Eventually, their "liaison" comes to light and Leo blames himself for the disastrous outcome of the events throughout his life.
to be criticized
The government has come under fire for closing the hospital.
to help someone who is in a difficult situation
I forgot my purse but Anna came to the rescue and lent me some money.
to deal with something as it happens, without planning for it
With an illness like this you just have to take every day as it comes.
We should, for once, put our jealousy aside, start to appreciate what we have and take life as it comes.
to accept a sad situation
He still hasn't come to terms with his brother's death.
She had, at last, come to terms with her loss and although she still, deep in her heart, grieved for Michael she now knew that she could move on.
a successful attempt to become powerful, important, or famous again
She's made a comeback with her first new album for twenty years.
He made a comeback and what a comeback!
someone who entertains people by telling jokes
Then, he went to London to become a comedian and now he is one of the most famous stars in that field.
entertainment such as a film, play, etc. which is funny
His latest film is described as a romantic comedy.
I prefer Shakespeare's comedies to his tragedies.
Everybody agreed to see that comedy with Jim Carrey and I know that you would like it.
a pleasant feeling of being relaxed and free from pain
She evidently dresses for comfort.
It's a little too hot for comfort.
Now you can watch the latest films in the comfort of your own room.
When the weather is bad, I need the comfort of my car.
something that makes your life easy and pleasant
home comforts
Good chocolate is one of life's little comforts.
Have you ever thought how our grandparents lived in their villages without extra home comforts?
when you have a pleasant life with enough money for everything that you need
He can afford to retire and live in comfort for the rest of his life.
Even when people sympathise with them, they always bear in mind that they are often rich children, who live in comfort.
when you feel better after being worried or sad
What she said brought me great comfort.
If I had been a "bad boy" and received a spanking I would seek comfort in my brothers or sister and they would do the same.
to make someone feel better when they are anxious or sad
The family of the dead are being comforted by friends.
He kept close to Sandra and comforted her, saying this was the only choice they had and that things would be fine.
describes furniture, clothes, etc. that provide a pleasant feeling and that do not give you any pain
a comfortable bed/sofa
comfortable shoes/trousers
You should wear a T-shirt because it's comfortable to paint in.
relaxed and free from pain
Are you comfortable perched on that seat?
I don't feel comfortable in high heels.
Do sit down and make yourself comfortable.
But when she started the lesson, everybody was comfortable and relaxed.
If you are comfortable in a situation, you do not have any worries about it.
I don't feel comfortable about leaving the children here alone.
Those children maybe they don't feel comfortable away from home.
having enough money for everything that you need
a comfortable retirement
Certainly, there are part-time jobs, but they are mostly not so well-paid that it would be enough for somebody to lead a comfortable life.
in a comfortable way
We slept very comfortably that night.
I was sitting comfortably on the couch watching TV when suddenly all the lights went out, and everything became silent.
making you feel better when you are anxious or sad
He said a few comforting words.
Furthermore, it is always very comforting to know that someone has the same or even worse problems than we do.
a magazine with stories told in pictures
As a boy I used to love reading comics.
a comic book
My hobbies are playing basketball and reading comics.
funny
a comic actor/performance
I think it's a bit long for a comic film (3 hours!!) but it's very funny: you must see it.
a mark (,) used to separate parts of a sentence, or to separate the items in a list
Put a comma before his name.
an order to do something, especially one given by a soldier
He hated being in the army because he had to obey commands.
When I give the command, fire!
Under the red lights of his command room, the first question that the captain wanted to ask was to know if the boat was safe.
knowledge of a subject, especially a language
She had a good command of Italian.
Besides, I have a good command of French and I speak English fluently, which might be useful during the voyage around the world.
an instruction to a computer
It's worth learning the shortcuts for some of these commands.
Program list. 1. System commands MAIN console programs. 2. Review of LINUX Sys. console 3. Server commands. 4. ADD ONs for LINUX OS. 5. LINUX INTERFACE. 6. USER PROFILE.
control over someone or something and responsibility for them
The soldiers were under the command of a tough sergeant-major.
Jones was in command.
Suddenly, there comes an insurrection of armed militia with generals in command.
an officer who is in charge of a military operation, or an officer of middle rank in the navy
He was a naval commander.
The best part is when the commander forces the troops to kill themselves to prove their loyalty.
to do something to show you remember an important person or event in the past with respect
a ceremony to commemorate the battle
As requested I am submitting the following proposal in order to recommend Melina Merkouri as a famous person whose achievements should be commemorated.
to begin something
Building work will commence in the autumn.
Shall we let the meeting commence?
The sitting commenced and after just a quarter of an hour - as the members of the council were familiar with the subject - a decision was made and with a solemn countenance the chairman announced: "Let's give these eager young people the possibility of making their dreams come true!"
something that you say or write that expresses your opinion
I don't want any comments on/about my new haircut, thank you!
Tell us what you think - go to our web page and post/leave/add a comment.
He made negative comments to the press.
Write me a comment.
used to say that you do not want to answer someone's question
'Will you be standing for leader?' 'No comment.'
to make a comment
My mum always comments on what I'm wearing.
He commented that the two essays were rather similar.
The official refused to comment on the matter.
I will only comment on some points, the others may be viewed as agreed upon.
the activities involved in buying and selling things
the world of commerce and industry
In the old days, when the only means of transport were horses, there were many difficulties in communication between people, in commerce, and in life generally.
an advertisement on the radio, on television, etc.
I tend to switch off during the commercials.
Nearly every one of us has to confess that on some days it is simply relaxing to sit in front of the TV just watching without using the brain at all, but we have to wonder if television is also able to educate us, especially regarding the senseless commercials.
related to buying and selling things
a commercial organization/success
The commercial future of the company looks very promising.
Unfortunately, as long as their private life is interesting for ordinary people and it brings commercial gain to publishers, journalists and photographers, famous people will just have to get used to this living "under a microscope".
making money from advertising
commercial television
These days, in all commercial television, they show advertisements in every hour of the day.
to do something that is considered wrong, or that is illegal
He was sent to prison for a crime that he didn't commit.
to commit suicide
to commit a crime/an offence/murder
She is willing to be a witness for the prosecution and states that her husband was not with her at the time the crime was committed.
to make a firm decision that you will do something
He committed himself to helping others.
Doctor Gregorio Alvarez was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina in the early 1910s and graduated as a doctor at an early age. ... He worked his entire life in the public hospital in Neuquen, which was the most developed city at that time, but he committed himself to exploration on a permanent basis.
when you are willing to give your time and energy to something that you believe in, or a promise or firm decision to do something
She is known chiefly for her commitment to human rights.
I'd like to thank the staff for having shown such commitment.
I really admire your stamina, your commitment and your eagerness to pursue a career as one of the youngest vice presidents ever in the company (and the only female I guess), but is it really worth it?
something that you must do or deal with that takes your time
family/work commitments
I've got too many commitments at the moment to do an evening class.
Please tell me also the terms of the possible job so I can plan my future work commitments.
loyal and willing to give your time and energy to something that you believe in
a committed Christian
She's committed to the job.
All in all, Mr Schmidt is a very committed and hard-working person.
a small group of people chosen to represent a larger organization and either make decisions or collect information for it
She is on the school's development committee.
The local council have just set up a committee to study recycling.
I'm pleased to help and to present these films to the club committee.
a product that you can buy or sell
The country's most valuable commodities include tin and diamonds.
Not just that, it will have a domino effect on prime commodities as well.
happening often or existing in large numbers
It's quite common to see couples who dress alike.
The surname 'Smith' is very common in Britain.
The city is so noisy and it's possible that you will get lost, it's very common.
belonging to or shared by two or more people or things
a common goal/interest
English has some features common to many languages.
I invited her to dinner for all her trouble and we found out that we have a lot of common interests.
something that a lot of people know
It's common knowledge that he spent time in jail.
It is common knowledge that such attention in the mass-media inevitably tells on relationships in the family.
not special in any way
The herbs all have common names and Latin names.
The fashion of the common people and the average worker had to be practical and had to be worn for longer than just half a year.
to find shared beliefs, interests or ideas
It's difficult for me to find any common ground with my dad.
The bottom line is we have to find some common ground and some balance between development and nature...
to share, interests, experiences, or other characteristics with someone or something
Sue and I don't have much in common.
We both like to read fantasy books so we have a lot in common.
in the same way as someone or something
In common with many working mothers, she feels guilty about leaving her children.
In common with many city dwellers, I do not think this is a wise decision and it could have negative effects on the city residents' daily lives.
often or usually
These caterpillars are commonly found on nettles.
It is commonly acknowledged that, these days, mobile phones have become an important accessory.
the natural ability to be practical and to make good decisions
The children shouldn't be in any danger as long as they use their common sense.
In fact she is very nice, funny, and full of common sense.
to share information with others by speaking, writing, moving your body or using other signals
We can now communicate instantly with people on the other side of the world.
Has the news been communicated to the staff yet?
Unable to speak a word of the language, he communicated with his hands.
Finally, I decided to join a new English class in order to improve my English because a few weeks ago I met someone who is really interesting, so I would like to be able to communicate properly with him.
to be understood by someone when you tell them about your feelings and thoughts
He can't communicate with his parents.
I think I can communicate with children and make them happy.
the act of communicating with people
Television is an increasingly important means of communication.
We are in direct communication with Moscow.
With an hour's walk to the nearest telephone, communication is difficult.
There's very little communication between mother and daughter.
a course on communication skills
Communication by e-mail is very fast and very cheap.
open and willing to talk to people
She's never very communicative in the morning.
First of all, I would like to say I am a very communicative person and I enjoy being surrounded by many people.
the people living in one particular area
a rural/small community
He's well-known in the local community.
Drug trafficking is a matter of considerable concern for the entire international community.
He supported some projects in our community.
a group of people with the same interests, way of life, nationality, job, etc.
the black/white/Chinese/Jewish community
the business community
As a member of our academic community, and a representative of the student's senate, I'm very glad to hear that our college will have a surplus in its annual budget.
to regularly travel between work and home
He commutes to London every day.
People who work in the centre will have to commute from the suburbs which will be a waste of time for them.
someone you spend a lot of time with or go somewhere with
a travelling companion
Dan has been her constant companion these past ten years.
Jane and her companion felt absolutely foolish and muttered something about a wrong address.
an organization which sells goods or services in order to make money
He works for a software company/a company that makes software.
I work for Duggan and Company.
Nokia is a famous company as you know.
when you are with a person or people, or the person or people you are with
I just enjoy his company.
Do you want company or would you rather go on your own?
I didn't realize you had company.
Margot came to stay for a week as company for my mother while I was away.
Fortunately a friend of mine came with me for company.
to stay with someone so that they are not alone
Come and keep me company, Isabel.
Usually I went with him to keep him company and because I liked it.
to be a pleasant or interesting person to spend time with
Ann and Charles are always good company.
He is a bit narrow-minded and at first he'll drive you crazy, but once you get to know him he'll be good company.
similar in size, amount, or quality to something else
Our prices are comparable to those in other shops.
The two experiences are not comparable.
Recent surveys revealed that the gap in salary between men and women doing comparable jobs increased within the last years.
the form of an adjective or adverb that expresses a difference in amount, in number, in degree or quality
'Fatter' is the comparative of 'fat'.
'More difficult' is the comparative of 'difficult'.
comparing similar things
a comparative study of two poems
In a comparative study we see the work force is increasing in Japan, whereas it is declining in U.S.
a situation which is comfortable/free/silent, etc. when compared to another situation or to what is usual
I enjoyed the comparative calm of his flat after the busy office.
Uruguay has exploited its comparative advantages orienting its economy towards tourism, whereas Argentina has made use of the river to promote the export of domestic products.
cheap/easy/little, etc. when compared to something else or to what is usual
The climb was comparatively easy.
Although I am not a professional interpreter, please notice that my earnings are comparatively low.
to examine the ways in which two people or things are different
If you compare house prices in the two areas, it's quite amazing how different they are.
That seems expensive - have you compared prices in other shops?
Compare some recent work with your older stuff and you'll see how much you've improved.
Teachers always used to compare me with my sister.
Our lives are so different, it's interesting to compare.
used when saying how one person or thing is different from another
This road is quite busy compared to ours.
Children seem to learn more interesting things compared with when we were at school.
To my surprise it was very cheap compared with other restaurants.
If two people compare notes, they tell each other what they think about something that they have both done.
We compared notes about our experiences in China.
In conclusion, regular meetings between parents and school teachers ... help both parties to compare notes, acting in the best interests of the children.
when two or more people or things are compared
They made a comparison of different countries' eating habits.
By/In comparison with the French, the British eat far less fish.
I always drink fresh coffee, not instant. There's no comparison.
Nowadays we can see a very different world from the one our grandparents were living in. Whereas they used to talk about how their daily life had changed in comparison with previous generations', we remain astonished at how our lives are changing frenetically.
compatible equipment can be used together
This keyboard is compatible with all of our computers.
Actually it is compatible with the newest 3DFX technology, which gives an extremely realistic look and the possibility to interact with the game.
If people are compatible, they like each other and are happy to spend time together.
After they got married, they soon found out that they weren't compatible.
My new job's going well, and my colleagues seem to be compatible.
The personalities of my parents were very different but at the same time they were a very compatible couple.
compatible ideas or situations can exist together
Such policies are not compatible with democratic government.
My aim here is not to criticize this point of view but to show it is hardly compatible with the idea of giving work less importance.
to feel that you should do something
He felt compelled to resign from his job.
As a member of the International Student's Sports Club, I felt compelled to write this article in answer to the previous article about how today's youth is putting sports and healthy activities aside.
to pay someone money because you are responsible for injuring them or damaging something
Victims of the crash will be compensated for their injuries.
I would like to be compensated for the extra work I have done to please the guests from the last stay.
to reduce the bad effect of something, or make something bad become something good
Nothing will ever compensate for his lost childhood.
Yet, it seems obvious that money cannot compensate for a lack of affection.
to take part in a race or competition
She's competing for a place in next year's Olympics.
Are you competing in the 100 metres?
There's gonna be a competition and I want to compete, but you know that my bicycle is a mess and very old.
to try to be more successful than someone or something else
It's difficult for a small supermarket to compete against/with the big supermarkets.
Both girls compete for their father's attention.
Most small cities like ours think that we have to compete with big cities by building new houses and shopping centres.
the ability to do something well
Her competence as a teacher is unquestionable.
This report aims to outline the present state of our library's archives as well as to recommend another book or newspaper for those interested in improving their competence in Greek.
able to do something well
a competent teacher/swimmer
I wouldn't say he was brilliant but he is competent at his job.
As the game develops, the creatures and tasks get more and more complicated and by the end of the game, you will be expected to become a competent shooter.
an organized event in which people try to win a prize by being the best, fastest, etc.
a swimming/chess competition
She's entered a crossword competition.
I'm in Australia. I have just seen a surf competition that was very exciting.
when someone, or a company, is trying to win something or be more successful than someone else
Competition for jobs is intense.
There's a lot of competition between computer companies.
The two companies are in competition with each other.
Different opening times means competition between the shops.
involving competition
competitive sports
a highly competitive industry
Nowadays people live in a very competitive society.
wanting very much to win or be more successful than other people
She's very competitive.
I think that I am a very competitive player.
as good as or better than other prices, services, etc.
They offer good quality goods at competitive prices.
I stayed at Riverside Hotel which is great value because of the food and the competitive prices they offer.
a person, team or company that is competing against others
How many competitors took part in the race?
Their prices are better than any of their competitors.
The last one I saw was called 'Spelling' and it was a kind of quiz where the competitors had to spell difficult words fast and finish at a certain time.
to collect information and arrange it in a book, report, list, etc.
We're compiling some facts and figures for a documentary on climate change.
The aim of this report is to compile the findings and thereby outline the main reasons why our branch did not get the contract, in order to prevent future failures.
to say that something is wrong or that you are annoyed about something
Lots of people have complained about the noise.
He's always complaining!
He complained that she never listened to him.
If the service was so bad why didn't you complain to the manager?
If we are bad, they complain to our manager or they tell the head office.
when someone says that something is wrong or not satisfactory
We've received a complaint from one of our listeners about offensive language.
I've made a complaint to the police about the noise.
We've had complaints that you've been playing your radio too loud.
I hope you give my complaint serious consideration and I would be very pleased if you would print a correction in the next issue of your magazine.
something that makes you complain
My only complaint was the lack of refreshments.
My only complaint about the teaching staff is that they did not allow enough time for individual tuition and help when needed.
to provide the last part needed to make something whole
Complete the sentence with one of the adjectives provided.
He only needs two more cards to complete the set.
All she needed to complete her happiness was a baby.
I will buy episode III as it is the only one that I need to complete my collection.
to write all the details asked for on a form or other document
Have you completed your application form yet?
Sometimes we complete the forms and talk.
to finish doing or making something
The palace took over twenty years to complete.
She will complete her studies in France.
I need this paper to complete my grade.
very great or to the largest degree possible
It was a complete waste of time.
He's a complete idiot!
I made a complete and utter mess of it!
It was a complete disaster!
with all the parts
the complete works of Oscar Wilde
The report comes complete with diagrams and colour photographs.
Sun, sand and romance - her holiday was complete.
I can send you a complete map.
in every way or as much as possible
I completely forgot I'd said I would call him.
He'd completely changed and I didn't recognize him.
I agree with you completely.
She's completely mad.
In the middle of the journey there was one of those summer rain showers and we got completely wet.
when something that you are doing or making is finished
The stadium is due for completion in 2008.
They will be paid on completion of the job.
After the completion of the work at the newly-built part of the airport and its opening for service, the formerly quiet part of the town has become a victim of the above mentioned kind of noise, even more than the parts which have had this problem for a long time.
involving a lot of different but connected parts in a way that is difficult to understand
a complex network of roads
a complex procedure
The film's plot was so complex that I couldn't follow it.
It took us two weeks to modify the results in a very complex operation.
a group of buildings or rooms that are used for a particular purpose
a sports/housing complex
A visit to any local shopping complex suggests people between 14 to 35 years of age are the most frequent shoppers.
a mental problem which makes someone anxious or frightened about something
an inferiority complex
He began to feel like that character in "Psycho", afraid that the hotel manager would turn out to be some kind of maniac with an Oedipus complex.
the colour and appearance of the skin on someone's face
a clear complexion
She had a fair complexion framed with red hair which reminded me of a witch.
when something is complex
a problem of great complexity
Will this system of planting and exploiting new values, styles and icons actually collapse under its own weight and complexity?
to make something more difficult to deal with or understand
These new regulations just complicate matters further.
My friend, I hope I didn't complicate things for you with my appraisal of the situation.
involving a lot of different parts, in a way that is difficult to understand
complicated instructions
I had to fill in this really complicated form.
The rules are rather complicated to follow.
The relationship is a bit complicated. He's my mother's cousin's daughter's child.
Life is getting easier but more complicated - I could have written a letter in a bottle but waiting for the answer would take a decade, now it's just a click of a button.
something which makes a situation more difficult
We want to sign the contract, but there are several complications.
As you have already correctly mentioned in your memorandum, we indeed face some complications in our resort.
a new medical problem that develops when you are already ill
Eye problems can be a complication of diabetes.
Disregarding recommendations given by nutrition experts can pose a great threat to our longevity, namely because of cardio-vascular complications.
something that you say or do to show praise or admiration for someone
My colleague told me I had a firm manner and I took it as a compliment.
I take that as a compliment, giving me hope to excel as well as he did.
to tell someone that you admire something about them
He paid her several compliments about her painting.
His companions always pay him compliments on his piano playing.
used by someone to express good wishes when they give you something free, for example in a restaurant
Please accept this champagne with the compliments of the manager.
The guest can also choose from a selection of wonderful desserts such as mousse au chocolat with fresh raspberries before finishing his/her meal with a rose liqueur - with the compliments of the house (and the bill).
to praise or express admiration for someone
He complimented me on my writing.
Firstly, I must compliment you on lowering your prices and adding new destinations to choose from.
praising or expressing admiration for someone
a complimentary report
The reviews of his latest film have been highly complimentary.
given free, especially by a business
a complimentary glass of wine
It may be easy to obtain complimentary copies from publishers without any cost to the library.
to obey an order, rule, or request
The pilot complied with instructions to descend.
To comply with even the highest security standards, WEB-DMS features cutting-edge encryption and access control technologies.
one of the parts of a machine or piece of equipment
Our company makes components for aircraft engines.
Since both the hardware and software components used by the employees of this department are not in a good state, there is a need of brand new and more powerful computers and of updated software.
one of the parts or characteristics of something or someone
The course has four distinct components.
These components are present in everyone, whether you are rich or poor, thus it is wrong to be biased with one kind of people purely based on beliefs not supported by solid evidence.
to be the parts that something consists of
The committee was composed of elected leaders and citizens.
It is composed of more than 50 members and they have various tastes in film: old and modern, comedy, action and so on.
to write a piece of music
Who composed the music for the film?
I've been composing music on a computer for over five years and I have a lot of knowledge when it comes to hardware.
someone who writes music
a famous composer
I also met a lot of famous composers, singers and even my favourite violin player, Ann Sophie Mutter, because I had to interview them.
a short piece of writing about a particular subject, done by a student
a 500-word composition
I have to do a composition in English to cover the work I missed.
a piece of music that someone has written
This concerto is one of her later compositions.
He sang Schubert's "Die Winterreise" although it's already Spring - this composition can be heard in every season.
the parts, substances, etc. that something consists of
the composition of the atmosphere
The eating procedure takes approx. 3 hrs, as each course is introduced by a detailed description of its preparation and composition.
the way that people or things are arranged in a painting or photograph
The composition of the painting was perfect.
The study of acting, directing, and generally speaking of the scene has always demanded a certain degree of visual composition, a sense of image and of that which is immediately seen (or not seen).
the process or skill of writing music
He taught composition at Yale.
He finished music composition at the University in Cracow, and he soon became the professor of composition at the same school of music.
including everything
a comprehensive study of the subject
Presentations on making a career in media, finance and IT could have been more comprehensive.
completely
We were comprehensively beaten in the final.
However enjoyable and relaxing, driving needs your full attention. Therefore, it should be learnt comprehensively and being experienced shouldn't be relied on.
to consist of particular parts or members
The orchestra was comprised of amateur and professional musicians.
It comprises only twelve single and six double bedrooms, which will provide the intimacy we need.
to form part of something, especially a larger group
Women comprise 15% of the police force.
According to a survey carried out in 1997, the urban population comprises 71% of the total population in Pakistan.
when you agree to something which is not exactly what you want
It is hoped that a compromise will be reached in today's talks.
You've both got to be willing to make compromises.
In a compromise between management and unions, a 4% pay rise was agreed in return for an increase in productivity.
I hope that we'll find a compromise.
to agree to something that is not exactly what you want
In a relationship, both people have to compromise.
I'm not going to compromise on quality.
The famous stars and the journalists should compromise and respect each other's rights.
to have a harmful effect on something
The trial has been seriously compromised by sensational media coverage.
Sportsmen are usually under an enormous amount of pressure, because the slightest failure could compromise their career.
A compulsive habit is something that you do a lot because you want to so much that you cannot control yourself.
a compulsive eating disorder
However, the centre has a potential to affect shoppers, rendering them more compulsive.
so interesting or exciting that you cannot stop reading, playing, or watching it
This documentary about life in prison makes compulsive viewing.
If something is compulsory, you must do it because of a rule or law.
Wearing seat belts in cars is compulsory by law.
Swimming was compulsory at my school.
We have asked participants to wear a typical traditional dress/suit from their country - of course, this is not compulsory but everyone is warmly invited to do so.
an electronic machine that can store and arrange large amounts of information
We've put all our records on computer.
computer software/hardware
computer graphics
a computer program
computer games
I don't like using a computer at college.
to hide something
The listening device was concealed in a pen.
She could barely conceal her irritation.
She had managed to conceal her dark secret from everybody.
to admit that something is true, even though you do not want to
Even the company chairman concedes that the results are disappointing.
As a frequent user of the town library, I had to concede that the article was telling the truth.
to allow someone to have something, even though you do not want to
The government will not concede to rebel demands.
"It's wonderful, isn't it, how you always get what you pray for." This quote, Milly's reaction when her father concedes to buying her a horse, is a good illustration of her general attitude towards religion and life.
too proud of yourself and your actions
I find him very conceited.
This is not to say that the successful person must be smug, conceited or bumptious; but he has to be convinced of his own skills and abilities.
to think of an idea or plan
The original idea for the novel was conceived in Rome.
I wonder what kind of person conceived this terrible and ignorant idea.
to be able to imagine something
I cannot conceive of anything more horrible.
You cannot conceive of any other way of existence than the one you know.
to become pregnant
She had been trying for years, but never managed to conceive.
By then she had everything she could ask for but for some reason she did not conceive for 2 years. Then she conceived but had two miscarriages.
to think very carefully about something you are doing and nothing else
Come on, concentrate! We haven't got all day to do this.
I can't concentrate on my work with all that noise.
I'm going to concentrate on my writing for a while.
I can't concentrate on studying.
to be present in large numbers or amounts in a particular area
Most of the fighting was concentrated in the mountains.
However it might imply a shift from large stores, concentrated in a few areas within or outside the city, to more local services.
the ability to think carefully about something you are doing and nothing else
The noise outside made concentration difficult.
There was a look of intense concentration on her face.
I find that yoga improves my powers of concentration.
I found it hard to follow what the teacher was saying, and eventually I lost concentration.
First of all, in my opinion, watching a film is more relaxing, because you don't have to concentrate too much on it. You only have to watch the screen, while books require more concentration.
a large number or amount of something in the same place
high concentrations of minerals
Again, we may need to think about the implementation of more strict regulations related to the concentration of toxic chemicals in exhausts.
a principle or idea
the concept of free speech
I failed to grasp the film's central concept.
I had been trying very hard to get the point of the concept.
an idea about what something is like or a way of understanding something
They have no conception of how ordinary people live.
Therefore, unless we stretch the conception of personality to cover conformity with practice and social norms, economic decisions, and the choice of identities we aspire to, the clothes that people wear may not reflect their personality, as this can be conditioned by many contingencies.
to be important to someone or to involve someone directly
Matters of pollution and the environment concern us all.
There are one or two other matters that don't concern you.
Fitness and health are two important issues in life which concern all of us.
to be about a particular subject
The next item on the agenda concerns staffing levels.
Your other question concerns clothes.
to worry or upset someone
What really concerns me is her lack of experience.
The fact that the coach only had broken safety belts concerned me a great deal.
when you feel worried or nervous about something, or something that makes you feel worried
Concern for the safety of the two missing teenagers is growing.
There's a lot of public concern about/over dangerous toxins recently found in food.
The situation has been causing concern for some time now.
My concern is that you're not getting enough work done.
There's a matter of some concern that I have to discuss with you.
All those days I put aside all my concerns about my studies.
something that is important to you, or when something is important
Our primary concern is safety.
My concern is what present to buy for Mr Brown.
worried
He's very concerned about her health.
I'm concerned that sales figures haven't improved
Concerned parents have complained about the dangerous playground.
We are getting more and more concerned about our health and how to get and keep fit nowadays.
used to say what someone's opinion is
As far as I'm concerned, feng shui is a load of rubbish.
As far as our customers are concerned, price is the main consideration.
As far as Laura was concerned, he was the most disgusting man in the world.
used to say what you are talking about
As far as money is concerned, we're doing very well.
First of all, I think the Majestic Hotel would be the right location, but I have doubts as far as the costs are concerned.
to be about a particular subject
The programme was more concerned with politics than the history of the place.
This field of linguistics is concerned with language acquisition.
This report is concerned with finding the best accommodation for the three-day trip in north-west England.
involved in something or affected by it
A letter will be sent out to everyone concerned.
The amount of refund is to be negotiated with everyone concerned separately.
about
I've had a letter from the tax authorities concerning my tax payments.
I am writing in reply to your letter concerning the prize I won in your competition, which is two weeks at Camp California in the U.S.A.
a performance of music by one or more musicians or singers
a pop/classical concert
a school concert
To help with the concert I can sell tickets.
something that you agree to do or give to someone in order to end an argument
Both sides will have to make concessions.
Nevertheless, I still have the impression that some concessions have to be made and from personal experience, I can say it is very different to base your choice on a single criterion.
a reduction in the price of a ticket for a particular group of people such as students, people without a job, or old people
We offer concessions to students.
At the moment, people are not very motivated to use the public transport and only children, students and pensioners get a concession card.
to decide something after studying all the information about it very carefully
The report concluded that the drug was safe.
It is because of this apparent pattern that we can conclude that as people grow older, they tend to visit the cinema less frequently.
to end something such as a meeting, speech, or piece of writing by doing or saying one last thing
The concert concluded with a firework display.
I would like to conclude by thanking you all for attending.
To conclude, I would like to underline one more time how crucial the setting up of a library would be for our college.
the opinion you have after considering all the information about something
At first I thought he was a bit rude but I've come to/reached the conclusion that he's just shy.
Dear Jack and Ben: I've been thinking about your last letter for quite a long time and I came to the following conclusion.
used to introduce the last part of a speech or a piece of writing
In conclusion, I would like to thank our guest speaker for her fascinating talk.
In conclusion, swimming is an enjoyable form of exercise and an excellent way to keep fit.
In conclusion, music, TV and clothes are very important in a young person's life and can reflect each person's character.
to guess the facts about a situation without having enough information
He saw them talking together and jumped to conclusions.
I think, before jumping to conclusions, we should first try to analyse the situation.
the final part of something
the dramatic conclusion of the film
The case should finally be brought to a conclusion this week.
When it comes to the crunch, he is patient and persistent enough to carry a project to a successful conclusion.
to cause you to think that something is probably true
So you thought I was leaving, did you? What led you to that conclusion?
These results lead us to the conclusion that only people with "minds tough enough" will survive.
proving that something is true
conclusive evidence/proof
Although there is no conclusive evidence of the influence of food on people's behaviour, we can observe certain patterns of behaviour depending on what kind of food people eat.
in a way that proves that something is true
It is possible to prove conclusively that he was at home at the time.
This undeniable fact implies advantages that were unthinkable in the past, yet we cannot prove conclusively that the gains outweigh the losses.
a very hard building material made by mixing together cement, sand, small stones and water
reinforced concrete
a concrete floor/path
a grey concrete building
Some of our children, brought up in modern cities, in a world of concrete, cars, motorways and supermarkets, when asked: "What is a fish?" are only able to answer: "a square piece of white flesh we take from the freezer".
certain or based on facts
They think she killed her husband, but they have no concrete evidence/proof.
We've got a general idea of what we want, but nothing concrete at the moment.
Another piece of concrete evidence to suggest that children from a poorer background cannot cope with social problems properly compared to the other group is the fact that they are more inclined to be the troublemakers themselves.
existing in a real form that can be seen or felt
concrete achievements/actions
concrete objects
In order to turn it into a feasible concept, this process of learning should be applied to concrete situations.
to say very strongly that you think something is wrong or very bad
The Prime Minister was quick to condemn the terrorists.
At first these needs were satisfied by different religions, but as we are living in a material world that does not care about spiritual things any more, we created our own idols whom we can look at, judge, admire or condemn - celebrities.
the particular state that something or someone is in
My bike's a few years old, but it's in really good condition.
They left the flat in a terrible condition - there was mess everywhere.
He's in no condition to drive home.
It's very beautiful and in good condition.
the physical situation that someone or something is in and affected by
The prisoners were kept in the most appalling conditions.
Severe weather conditions are making driving difficult.
What are their living/working conditions like?
Under what conditions do plants grow best?
Although I had fun the weather conditions were horrible - it was raining all the time and the road was too wet to ride on.
an illness
a medical condition
He suffers from a rare heart condition.
Besides, all the fats we eat every day plus the accumulated stress of a job, makes us the perfect candidates for a heart condition.
only if
I'll come with you on condition that we're back before midnight.
I would like to do this on condition that you will not mention my name on the website.
something that must happen or be agreed before something else can happen
One of the conditions of the contract is that we can't keep pets.
Now I want you to pay for that as it was agreed between us and according to the terms and conditions of the contract.
to make a person or animal behave in a particular way by influencing the way they think
The boys were conditioned to be aggressive.
We are then conditioned, somehow, to choose among a restricted range of offers and products, the ones they place before our very eyes on the telly.
to organize and perform a particular activity
We are conducting a survey to find out what our customers think of their local bus service.
The experiments were conducted by scientists in New York.
This is based on a questionnaire conducted in the school and our English department's investigation.
to stand in front of a group of musicians and control their performance
The orchestra was conducted by Charles Miller.
The orchestra conducted by Mr Miller was just superb.
to behave in a particular way
She conducted herself with great dignity.
The qualities I admire most in other people are, first of all, the ability to hide your own feelings - being a little reserved - and at the same time the ability to conduct yourself in such a way so that other people are influenced by you.
someone who stands in front of a group of musicians or singers and controls their performance
a famous conductor
I am fifty five years old and have experience as a conductor of a choir.
a large, formal meeting, often lasting a few days, where people discuss their work, politics, subjects they are studying, etc.
a conference on women's rights
the annual sales conference
They frequently hold conferences at the hotel.
I'm speaking at/attending a conference next week.
As you know, I went to Canada in order to take part in an environmental conference.
to admit that you have done something wrong or something that you feel guilty or bad about
She confessed to her husband that she had sold her wedding ring.
He has confessed to the murder.
He confessed to sleeping through most of the film.
I have to confess, I was a little confused at first.
I found it all very confusing, I must confess.
I must confess I've put on four kilos in the last three months and the bicycle will help me to become fitter.
when you admit that you have done something wrong or illegal
He made a full confession to the police.
I have a confession to make - I've lost that book you lent me.
I also have a confession to make.
when you are certain of your ability to do things well
He's got the confidence to walk into a room of strangers and immediately start a conversation.
The training has given me the confidence to deal with any situation that arises.
She has ability but she lacks confidence.
I have every/complete confidence in her. She'll be perfect for the job.
As a result of such a bad appearance he lacks confidence.
trusting someone's ability or believing that something will produce good results
Kate's new to the job, but I've got every confidence in her.
I have every confidence in your ability to reach a compromise.
If you tell something to someone in confidence, you do not want them to tell anyone else.
I'm sorry, she told me that in confidence.
His real name isn't Piggy but he told Ralph in confidence that they called him that in school because of his appearance.
certain about your ability to do things well
Be a bit more confident in yourself!
It was a confident performance.
He feels confident of winning.
But I soon felt more confident, as I saw what activities they were doing: some people were playing tennis, others were sunbathing in the garden.
being certain that something will happen
Are you confident that enough people will attend the event?
They don't sound confident about the future of the industry.
All in all, I'm confident that a solution will be found and our town will soon regain its former attractive look.
secret, especially in an official situation
These documents are strictly confidential.
Remember, you are under no obligation to do anything and of course we will treat the confidential information you give us with discretion and respect.
with confidence or in a confident way
Try to act confidently, even if you feel nervous.
I am quite a hard worker and I can confidently say that I am quite a reliable person.
to prevent someone from leaving a place or to prevent something from spreading
He was confined to a prison cell for several days.
Being Portuguese, I was confined to this small rectangle until I was a 15-year-old boy.
to make an arrangement or meeting certain, often by telephone or in writing
Six people have confirmed that they will be attending and ten haven't replied yet.
Flights should be confirmed 48 hours before departure.
I've accepted the job over the phone, but I haven't confirmed in writing yet.
I just want to confirm that we're going to the ABC cinema tonight.
to say or show that something is true
His wife confirmed that he had left the house that morning.
The leader's speech was impressive and confirmed her faith in the party.
Besides, it was confirmed by scientists that consumerism may develop into a compulsion.
a statement, often written, that an arrangement or meeting is certain
a letter of confirmation
We've only had five confirmations for the conference so far.
We will send you written confirmation of our offer shortly.
I look forward to receiving your confirmation.
serious disagreement between people with opposing opinions or principles
There was a lot of conflict between the two parties.
The Government was in conflict with the unions over pay.
It was an unpopular policy and caused a number of conflicts within the party.
As you know I was in conflict with myself, should I buy a computer or a bicycle?
fighting between two or more groups of people or countries
armed conflict
In these years, Europe was in conflict with China, which meant war.
a situation where someone cannot make fair decisions because they are influenced by something
She resigned from the committee because of a conflict of interest.
It could become a conflict of interest, but he never lets it.
to tell someone something, or show them something to try to make them admit they have done something wrong
Confronted with the evidence, she broke down and confessed.
We had bills coming in our door, old ones which weren't paid and whenever I confronted him, he told me he would take care of it.
to be in a difficult situation, or to be shown something which may cause difficulties
We are confronted by the possibility of war.
Youngsters are confronted with a lot of difficulties and dangers and are often bound to collapse psychologically from the hard pressure on them.
to see that a problem exists and try to deal with it
First, they must confront their feelings of anger.
His inability to confront Ethan's death, as well as his being too methodical, causes his wife Sarah to reconsider their marriage.
a fight or argument
She witnessed a confrontation between the two men.
There, he finds himself in a direct confrontation with Captain Beatty, the head of the fire station, who represents everything that's evil, as he knows about books but still willingly destroys them.
to make someone unable to think clearly, or to make something difficult to understand
You're confusing him! Tell him slowly and one thing at a time.
Stop confusing the issue!
When the corpse was found he - successfully - tried to confuse Mrs. Marple, Scotland Yard and the members of the family where he was the doctor.
to think that one person or thing is another person or thing
I think you're confusing me with my sister - we look quite similar.
It's easy to confuse his films, because he tends to use the same actors.
I had confused the two words, "uvas", which means grapes, and "huevos", which means eggs and said "huevas", which unfortunately means testicles, instead...
unable to think clearly or to understand something
People keep telling me different things and I'm getting very confused.
Sorry, I'm a bit confused - are we meeting here or in town?
She seemed a bit confused about the arrangements.
At first I felt very confused.
not clear
The witnesses gave confused accounts of what happened.
What can a child think, hearing such confused explanations about animals that don't live where they should live, that don't live how they should live.
difficult to understand
I found the instructions very confusing.
As a secret agent I was prepared for this sort of thing but it was surprising and confusing.
when people do not understand what is happening, what they should do or who someone or something is
There seems to be some confusion about/over who is actually giving the talk.
This caused some confusion because the courses were not completely prepared.
a situation, often with a lot of activity and noise, in which people do not know what to do
In the confusion after the bomb blast, I lost my bag.
In the confusion someone pushed her against the wall and she hurt her shoulder.
a feeling of not being able to think clearly
He could see the confusion on Marion's face.
Then I thought he recognised my confusion; therefore, he opened the box, picking up something from it.
when something is full or blocked, especially with traffic
traffic congestion
The traffic congestion in Belo Horizonte is an issue that can't be ignored.
to tell someone that you are happy because they have done something good or something good has happened to them
I was just congratulating Ceri on winning her race.
Needless to say, everybody congratulated her and she spent all evening answering questions such as: "Why did you choose water jumping?" or "Isn't it difficult for a teenager to train five hours a day and to study?"
something that you say when you want to congratulate someone
"I passed my driving test yesterday." "Congratulations! That's fantastic."
Congratulations on your engagement!
Congratulations on your wedding.
a word such as 'and', 'but', 'while' or 'although' that connects words, phrases and clauses in a sentence
The conjunction "although" joins the two clauses in the sentence "He left, although I begged him not to."
working, used, or happening with something or someone else
Our librarians use their knowledge in conjunction with the computer network.
Therefore if the banning of private cars takes place in conjunction with development in the public transport system in that city, this whole development will have more advantages despite some slight difficulties at the start.
to join or be joined with something else
Can I connect my printer to your computer?
Where does the cooker connect to the electricity?
Has the water/electricity/gas/telephone been connected in your new place yet?
I want to buy a computer to play games and connect to the Internet as well as listen to music in my free time.
to see or show that two or more people or things are involved with each other
There is no evidence to connect him with the crime.
Happiness should not be defined as material access, it should be connected with one of the most basic human needs, love.
something that joins things together
Many companies now offer free connection to the Internet.
Moreover, some portable phones have a connection to the web, so it is easy to read newspapers if one hasn't enough money to buy them.
when someone or something is involved with or related to someone or something else
The connection between smoking and heart disease is well known.
He has denied having any connection with the terrorists.
They're sisters, are they? I knew their surname was the same, but I never made the connection.
If you are aware of the connection between food and health you can start changing your eating habits.
used to say what something is about
I am writing in connection with the above job advertised in The Daily Press on Monday 12th February.
A man has been arrested in connection with last month's murder.
Dear Mrs Brown, I am writing in connection with a surprise birthday party for your husband, Mr Brown.
a train, bus or aircraft that leaves a short time after another arrives, so people can continue their journey
The train was half an hour late and I missed my connection.
Because of bad bus connections it's not easy to get there.
to take control of a country or to defeat people by war
The English were conquered by the Normans in 1066.
However, following imperialistic politics, the Persian King Darios wanted to expand his Kingdom in Europe, so he had to conquer Greece.
the part of you that makes you feel guilty when you have behaved badly
a guilty conscience
My conscience is clear because I've done nothing wrong.
Young people have pangs of conscience and are invariably hit by pestering anxiety but they adamantly refuse to admit it.
always doing your work with a lot of care
a conscientious student
She is conscientious and hardworking.
to know that something is present or that something is happening
The tooth doesn't exactly hurt, but I'm conscious of it all the time.
I think she's very conscious of being the only person in the office who didn't have a university education.
I'm very conscious of the fact that a lot of people disagree with me.
We have to be conscious that we are destroying the world where we are living.
awake and able to think and notice things
He's still conscious but he's very badly injured.
a decision/choice/effort, etc. that you make intentionally
Did you make a conscious decision to lose weight?
The fairly recent possibilities of birth control allow you to make a conscious decision about having children and you can postpone that decision until well after 30.
when someone is awake and can think and notice things
He lost consciousness for several minutes.
He never regained consciousness after the accident.
He lost consciousness and lay there on the floor just in front of me.
when someone knows about something
There's a growing consciousness about environmental issues among young people.
It also springs up out of a pleasure of playing the game and a consciousness that their health matters and being fit is an important element of it.
Consecutive events, numbers, or periods of time come one after the other.
the third consecutive day of rain
Complaints from students have been increasing for the second consecutive year, tape players are repeatedly reported not functioning.
when all the people in a group agree about something
to reach a consensus
The general consensus is that we should wait and see what happens.
In addition, as the general consensus is that young people enjoy communicating through radio programmes, I suggest there is a time when messages sent by listeners are read.
permission for someone to do something
You can't come without your parents' consent.
The role of the council is to organise things well and to do so with the consent of people living in the city.
to agree to do something, or to allow someone to do something
They eventually consented to let us enter.
Fascism is regarded as one of the worst manifestations of human nature, for it was not only a man or even a larger group of men who committed the crimes against mankind that will long remain in our minds, but a whole nation who consented in silence.
the result of a particular action or situation, especially a bad result
The ship sank with disastrous consequences.
Excessive drinking can have serious consequences for a person's health.
If you neglect your relationships like that, you'll suffer the consequences.
My work was the best because I drew a big drawing about the consequences of us not caring for the environment.
used to talk about one thing that is the result of another
A lot of birds died as a consequence of the oil spill.
The influence from Italy is very strong and, as a consequence, pasta with different sauces is common in Slovenia, especially among students.
not important
The money was of little consequence to Tony.
Second, the downpour of rain which was mentioned was in fact nothing more than a small shower, of no significant consequence for the dance display and horse show.
as a result
I spent most of my money in the first week and consequently had very little to eat by the end of the holiday.
Because of their job or school, people are much more stressed. Consequently, they don't take the time to eat correctly.
the protection of nature
wildlife conservation
conservation groups
I think that trying to save the wildlife in your area is a great aim because you don't have conservation areas and people can easily go hunting without telling anyone and in that way they destroy the wildlife.
when you are careful not to waste energy, water, etc.
Our top priority is conservation of water.
As the issue of energy conservation is becoming more and more important, our company has decided to start doing something about it, as well.
not trusting sudden changes or new ideas
Older people tend to be very conservative.
However, some people, especially some youngsters, would say that she's too conservative - I heard lots of people describing her as a 'fuddy-duddy lady'.
to think carefully about something, often before you decide what to do
Have you considered what you'll do if you don't get the job?
We're considering selling the house.
She's being considered for the job.
I'd like some time to consider before I make a decision.
I must say thanks to you for your birthday money for me to buy a DVD. After considering what to buy, I decided to buy 'The Legend of Narnias'.
to have a particular opinion about someone or something
I don't consider myself to be a great athlete.
I consider myself to be punctual, hard-working, reliable and responsible.
to give attention to a particular subject or fact when making a decision or judging something else
You've got to consider the time element when planning the whole project.
If you consider how long he's been learning the piano, he's not very good.
If you buy an old house, you have to consider the cost of repairs.
The only point we have to consider will be the price of food.
to think that something may exist or be true
Have you considered the possibility that he might be lying?
Many students this year refuse even to consider the possibility of going to one.
used for saying that something is true in general if you think about all its aspects
The show was a great success, all things considered.
All things considered, it seems like "Kavanagh Catering Services" would be most suitable for the students.
to care about or respect other people or their feelings or wishes
She never considers anyone but herself.
Firstly you should always consider other people in your group once you start working together in a group.
large or important enough to be noticed
It's a considerable sum of money.
The effect on the region has been considerable.
I have considerable experience as a worker on a farm, having worked on my father's farm from 1956 to 1986.
in a way that is large or important enough to be noticed
Rates of pay vary considerably.
He's considerably fatter than he was when I knew him.
The departures are at 8 am. and 10 a.m. daily, but I suggest that your group be there at the time of the first departure because it is considerably less crowded.
showing concern for other people and their feelings
He is always a kind and considerate host.
As a colleague, I always found him thoughtful and considerate.
when you think about something very carefully
After careful consideration, we decided to offer her the job.
The whole matter needs to be given careful consideration.
Please give this your careful consideration.
when you think about a particular fact or detail and let it influence your decision
It may be cheap to buy, but you've got to take into consideration the money you'll spend on repairs.
For the reasons I have stated and taking into consideration that I am an ambitious and sociable person, I think I am suitable for the job.
something that you have to think about when you make decisions or plans
Safety is our main consideration.
Cost, of course, is another consideration.
The next consideration is the activities.
when you are kind to people or think about their feelings
They always treated me with consideration.
He is very friendly and sympathetic towards those who, like Ralph and the twins, treat him with consideration, accepting him as he is, in spite of his deficiencies as to his manual or hunting abilities.
used for saying that you have a particular opinion about something, because of a particular fact about it
She did really well, considering how little experience she'd had.
Considering the weather, we got here quite quickly.
Considering all the above, I think that your article was completely misleading.
to be made of or formed from something
The team consists of four Europeans and two Americans.
It's a simple dish to prepare, consisting mainly of rice and vegetables.
Our team consists of 15 girls, who are all between 16 and 18.
always behaving or happening in a similar, usually positive, way
consistent effort/improvement
If you make a consistent effort you will improve your work at a very brisk pace.
having the same principles as something else, or agreeing with other facts
His account of events is entirely consistent with the video evidence.
An accurate selection of these categories of people should be made by the producers so as to offer to viewers the best possible models in a way which has to be consistent with the programme's title.
in a way that does not change, often a positive way
He has consistently denied the rumours.
She performed consistently throughout the whole tournament.
It seems that international sports competitions have always tended to attract a great amount of interest on the part of the media and have consistently been popular with sports fans the world over.
one of the speech sounds or letters of the alphabet which is not a vowel
Under what condition is a consonant never doubled at the end of a word?
happening a lot or all the time
He's in constant trouble with the police.
These machines are in constant use.
As for me, constant practice in the English language is quite important, it is the essence of my life.
staying at the same level
The temperature remained constant.
Spain had the highest average number of children (2.2) in 1980. This figure took a dip downward to 1.6 in 1985, decreased steadily to 1.2 average number of children in 1995 and remained relatively constant afterwards.
all the time or often
He's constantly changing his mind.
She has the television on constantly.
I stood up and walked around the house, constantly bumping into things!
to be or form something
This defeat constitutes a real setback for their championship hopes.
Women constitute nearly half (48%) of the university students, and in some departments (educational colleges, medicine schools) they are clearly the majority.
the set of laws and principles that a country's government must obey
the US Constitution
This is to be seen as progress, although this development seems to start rather late as already in 1949, the German constitution indicated that men and women have equal rights.
the state of someone's health
a strong/weak constitution
Another obvious feature of his character is his physical constitution: he is rather weak and needs glasses because he is short-sighted.
relating to the constitution of a country
a constitutional crisis
Holidays should be a constitutional right of every worker, student and housewife in order to achieve a healthy, balanced life.
to control something by limiting it
regulations that constrain industry
I'm constrained by decisions made in the past.
It must be acknowledged that he is a man constrained by an imposed marriage, which is going to leave him without an heir.
something that limits what you can do
budget/financial constraints
There are constraints on the medicines doctors can prescribe.
Of course there are different preferences and priorities as well as constraints.
to build something from several parts
The building was constructed in 1930.
The walls are constructed of concrete.
You need this information to construct a basic sentence.
Using some wood, we constructed small seats and tables.
the work of building something, especially houses, offices, bridges, etc.
the construction industry
The next decade saw the construction of many more office blocks.
She works in construction.
This website is currently under construction.
It is worth mentioning that a huge gym is under construction.
something that is built
a large steel construction
It would be a pity to build a modern construction there.
The construction of a sentence or phrase is the way the words are arranged.
Pay attention to sentence construction and check word order.
helpful or useful
constructive advice/criticism
Moreover, I have quite often asked for the opinion of Mr. Walker on the making of our marketing plan and his comments were always very helpful and constructive.
to go to a particular person or book to get information or advice
For more information, consult your travel agent.
Even if I think I know what to write, I usually consult an interpreter and/or a lawyer.
to discuss something with someone before you make a decision
Why didn't you consult me about this?
As it is just after Christmas I had to consult my wife - that is why it took some time to write this reply.
someone who advises people on a particular subject
a management/financial consultant
a firm of public relations consultants
I work in a bank as a consultant.
when you discuss something with someone in order to get their advice or opinion about it
After consultation with his lawyers, he decided to abandon the case.
After full consideration and consultation of the three groups of people mentioned above, we come to the result that charity workers should have the opportunity to present the work they are doing on TV.
a meeting to discuss something or to get advice
a medical consultation
We also plan to employ 2 graduate students from the psychology department in giving free consultations to the children to help them cope with their concerns and worries.
to eat or drink something
People generally consume far too much sugar.
People who eat fresh vegetables and meat tend to have good digestion and tend to consume less salt.
to use fuel, energy or time, especially in large amounts
Our high living standards cause our present population to consume 25 percent of the world's oil.
It did consume a lot of time, but it was very rewarding.
to have so much of a feeling that it affects everything you do
a dancer consumed by ambition
He was consumed with jealousy.
Therefore, we find ourselves unable to enjoy a pleasant meal without being consumed by the deepest guilt.
a person who buys goods or services for their own use
The new telephone rates will affect all consumers including businesses.
consumer rights/advice
Some people might argue that this system is convenient for consumers as they can go shopping whenever they would like to, and it makes the shops more secure against burglary and vandalism since the shops are packed with people inside.
the amount of something that someone uses, eats, or drinks
We need to reduce our energy consumption.
fuel/water consumption
One less obvious aspect of pollution is the surge in energy consumption caused by technological development.
someone you know, especially someone who can help you because of their job or position
Julia's mother had contacts who helped her with her career.
business contacts
All my contacts are in my cell phone and it is very important.
communication with someone, especially by speaking or writing to them regularly
Do you still keep in contact with Peter?
I'm still in contact with Sarah - we write a couple of times a year.
There isn't enough contact between teachers and parents.
I'd hate to lose contact with my old school friends.
If you manage to make contact with her, do let me know.
The school likes to have a contact number for parents during school hours.
Well, we'll be in contact in one week's time.
when two people or things are touching each other
She dislikes any kind of physical contact.
Wash your hands if they come into contact with chemicals.
I might even have become afraid of physical contact and of being face to face with others.
a small piece of plastic that you put on your eye to make you see more clearly
I wear contacts.
"Thank you," Jason said with delight, "You must know I am almost blind without my contacts."
when people look at each other, for instance when they are talking to each other
There was very little eye contact between them.
I tried to avoid having eye contact with people just because of this humility.
to communicate with someone by telephoning them or sending them a letter, email, etc.
I tried to contact him at his office, but he wasn't in.
You can contact me on 388 9146.
Please contact me on 3333333.
If one thing contains another, it has it inside it.
a box containing a diamond ring
How much liquid do you think this bottle contains?
I've lost a file containing a lot of important documents.
So he asks the man if that suitcase is his, and the man runs to get it but the security guards don't let him until he shouts: "It contains my daughter's wedding dress!"
to have something as a part
Does this drink contain alcohol?
Try to avoid foods which contain a lot of fat.
The allegations contained in this report are very serious.
The food was not wonderful, but it was healthy and contained a lot of vitamins.
to control your emotions
He could barely contain his anger.
I could not contain myself any longer.
Without being able to contain himself and helped by the alcohol in his blood, he shouted and danced and kissed everyone around him, acting in an exceptional way.
an object such as a box or a bottle that is used for holding something
an airtight container
a plastic drinks container
As a result, a mountain of plastic containers and harmful chemical fluid is ruining mother earth.
to think about something for a long time or in a serious way
I'm contemplating changing my name.
He even contemplated suicide.
While the popular girl gets very drunk at parties, the other one sits alone in her room, contemplating suicide.
existing or happening now
contemporary music/literature/art/fashion
Although it was written hundreds of years ago, it still has a contemporary feel to it.
I always read a lot of different magazines and know a lot about contemporary writers.
a strong feeling that you do not respect someone or something
He has utter contempt for anyone with power.
Being a compulsory subject at school, history inevitably arouses contempt, as anything mandatory does.
pleased with your situation and not hoping for change or improvement
He seems fairly content with life.
They're content to socialize with a very small circle of people.
He looked really content and happy.
the ideas that are contained in a piece of writing, a speech or a film
the content of the article
It's a very stylish and beautiful film, but it rather lacks content.
We've discussed the unusual form of the book - now, what about the content?
I suggest explaining the content of the film.
the amount of a particular substance that something contains
Most soft drinks have a high sugar content.
To sum up, I think to eat what is and has been considered healthy for ages, to focus on variety rather than fat content and to do a lot of exercise is the best option.
everything that is contained within something
The contents of his bag spilled all over the floor.
He hardly needed to open the letter because he already knew the contents.
He looked for the owner and gave him the suitcase. He also asked about its contents.
the information or ideas that are written in a book, letter, document, etc.
the contents of his will
In the first lesson the teacher explained the rules and the contents of the course, and finally we did a group activity.
a list in a book that tells you what different parts the book contains
a table of contents
A table of contents is just like the list of chapters at the beginning of a book.
a competition to do better than other people, usually in which prizes are given
a dance/sports contest
She's won a lot of beauty contests.
Next week there will be a "Freestyle Battle", a rap contest, where a rapper can mess with others.
someone who competes in a contest
All the contestants are ready to begin.
The contestants have to sing in front of an audience and the jury.
all the facts, opinions, etc. relating to a particular thing or event
This small battle is very important in the context of Scottish history.
It is important to see all the fighting and bloodshed in his plays in historical context.
It is interesting to see wild animals in their natural surroundings but for a number of reasons this is mostly impossible. In this context, I think a zoo is a good alternative.
other words that were said or written at the same time as the word or words you are talking about
In this exercise, a word is blanked out and you have to guess what it is by looking at the context.
Taken out of context, her remark sounded like an insult.
It's not like studying new words from a textbook as you hear or use the words in real situations and an appropriate context.
one of the seven main areas of land on the Earth, such as Africa, Asia, Europe or South America
the North American continent
Asia and Africa are the two biggest continents.
Brazil is a large country, almost as big as a continent.
relating to a continent
the continental US
To us from continental Europe it comes as a surprise if we see people on the streets with naked shoulders and naked legs at a temperature of 16 degrees celsius!
happening again and again over a long period of time or happening without stopping
I can't work with these continual interruptions.
But, if you are seeking a developed city, Buenos Aires is your answer, as it is considered to be a city in continual improvement.
again and again or without stopping
Dad continually complains about money.
House prices have been rising continually for the last five years.
First of all I would like to mention that new blood is required in the club, as the membership is continually falling.
to keep happening, existing or doing something
It continued to snow heavily for two days.
If the rain continues, we'll have to cancel tonight's plans.
The article continues on page ten.
I'll continue working until the end of June.
Shall I continue with this task?
Sally Palmer will be continuing as chairperson this autumn.
I thought that he wasn't calling me, so I continued walking to the car.
to start doing or saying something again, after stopping for a short period
We'll have to continue this discussion tomorrow.
It's getting late - why don't we continue tomorrow?
After stopping for a quick snack, they continued on their way.
He paused for a moment to listen and then continued eating.
We continued our journey early in the morning.
the state of continuing for a long period of time without being changed or stopped
We are trying to provide continuity of care for these children.
It is the young who demonstrate that there is a sense of continuity in a family, and that was what I was looking for.
being the form of a verb used to show that an action is continuing to happen
the present/past continuous
The lesson was about the present continuous form.
happening or existing without stopping
continuous pain
My computer makes a continuous low buzzing noise.
A continuous white line in the middle of the road means no overtaking.
Since the development of nuclear weapons, the Earth's fate has been in continuous danger.
without stopping
You can't work continuously for six hours without a break!
They continuously claim that the destruction of the environment is totally all human beings' responsibility.
methods that prevent a woman from becoming pregnant
What form of contraception do you use?
Should the Church have taken a more pro-active role in educating its followers on matters related to health care such as contraception, pregnancy and basic self care - perhaps we would not see such appalling numbers of impoverished large families living in shanty towns.
a drug or object that prevents a woman from becoming pregnant
They were not using contraceptives.
The lack of contraceptives in her village (due to the religious pressure) in addition to the poor availability of information result in Maria's almost inevitable pregnancy.
a legal agreement between two people, two organizations or a person and an organization
a contract of employment
a temporary/permanent contract
My solicitor is drawing up a contract.
Don't sign/enter into any contract before examining its conditions carefully.
He went to the 1994 World Cup in the USA and Brazil's victory helped him to sign a contract to play in Holland.
to make a legal agreement with someone to do work or to have work done for you
He's been contracted to perform in five shows.
We have contracted a famous lawyer who is ready to take the case to court if our demands are not met by the end of the year.
to get a serious disease
She contracted malaria while living abroad.
We should be proud of ourselves that we are in a position to help and cure people who have contracted very complex diseases.
to say that what someone has just said is wrong
Nobody dared to contradict her.
Jane: Be patient with her, she is a lovely lady, although she doesn't like people to contradict her.
If two things that are said or written about something contradict each other, they are so different that they cannot both be true.
His account of the accident contradicts the official government report.
Although I strongly agree with you that people should enjoy their food I also think that you contradict yourself within your last statement.
a big difference between two things that are said or written about the same subject, or between what someone says and what they do
There is a clear contradiction between what she says and what she does.
More often than not, however, such events will also give rise to all sorts of contradictions.
If two statements about the same subject or two actions by the same person are contradictory, they are very different.
The witness statements were contradictory.
So parents need to be good role models and not behave in a contradictory way to what is being taught at school.
used to show that the opposite of what has just been said is true
"You're a vegetarian, aren't you?" "On the contrary, I love meat."
As a result, it was not a perfect evening as the advertisement suggested - on the contrary, it turned out to be a miserable one.
saying or showing the opposite
She claimed she hadn't been involved, despite evidence to the contrary.
Despite claims to the contrary, young people are getting more involved in sports activities.
opposite to what someone said or thought
Contrary to popular belief, bottled water is not always better than tap water.
Contrary to Mrs Jones' allegation, the exam results of our college are first-class and moreover, there is an extremely varied social programme.
opposite or very different
a contrary opinion/view
It took them a week to conclude that, apparently, and as long as nobody came out with a contrary theory to theirs, they were right.
an obvious difference between two or more things
The contrast between their lifestyles couldn't be greater.
The busy north coast of the island is in sharp contrast to the peaceful south.
The contrast between the wild mountains and the crowded but charming beach on the ocean shore would have pleased you.
used to show that someone or something is completely different
Their economy has expanded enormously, while ours, by contrast, has declined.
She's quite short, in contrast to her tall sister.
TV, by contrast, is a more passive activity.
If one thing contrasts with another, it is very different from it.
The sharpness of the lemons contrasts with the sweetness of the honey.
Her pale expression contrasted with her long, dark hair that hung down beyond her shoulders.
to compare two people or things in order to show the differences between them
If you contrast his early novels with his later work, you can see how his writing has developed.
Ruth Jhabvala's "Heat and Dust" describes the growing attraction of two British women to India in two parallel stories skilfully interwoven to contrast two periods of time fifty years apart.
to give something, especially money, in order to provide or achieve something together with other people
Are you going to contribute towards Jack's leaving present?
Her family have contributed £50, 000 to the fund.
Do come to the meeting if you feel you have something to contribute.
Furthermore, it is unfair to judge other performers as second-rate, as they did their best to contribute.
to write articles for a newspaper, magazine, or book
She contributes to several magazines.
After a lot of thinking and discussing with our members and with people who would like to contribute to our magazine, I decided to suggest our well thought-out ideas.
something that you do or give to help produce or achieve something, or to help make something successful
This invention made a major contribution to road safety.
She didn't make much of a contribution at today's meeting, did she?
All contributions, no matter how small, will be much appreciated.
a generous contribution to charity
I am willing to make a significant contribution to the club.
to make someone or something do what you want
If you can't control your dog, put it on a lead!
This switch controls the temperature.
The movie was about a ring which was found in the river and used to control the world.
to stop yourself expressing strong emotions or behaving in a silly way
You're going to have to learn to control your temper.
I tried to control myself and started to speak politely and in a friendly way.
to limit the number, amount or increase of something
Fire crews struggled to control the blaze.
No attempt was made to control the spread of the disease.
We have to control the number of cars, we can't allow as many cars as we drive now.
to rule or govern an area
The whole area is controlled by rebel forces.
BRAVE NEW WORLD The part of the book I have read and I remember best is when John, the savage, comes into the New World State controlled by several World Controllers from the savage reservation.
when you make someone or something do what you want, or the power to do this
She's got no control over that child.
He lost control of the vehicle.
The police are in control of the situation.
Apparently he lost control of the wheel, so the car crashed into a tree.
If something or someone is beyond control or out of control, you cannot influence, limit or direct them.
The car skidded and went out of control, crashing into an oncoming truck.
There's nothing we can do - the situation is beyond our control.
I had just driven through Piazza Duomo, when another car came round a corner much too fast, skidded, and went out of control.
being dealt with successfully
Don't worry - everything's under control.
"Everything is under control," said the captain.
a switch or other device used to operate a machine such as a vehicle
Where's the volume control on your stereo?
The main instruments are in the centre of the control panel.
The captain sat at the controls of the aircraft.
He touched a switch on the control panel and heard that characteristic hiss.
to start to rule or govern an area
The dictator took control of the country in 1933.
In the first part of the story animals take control of a farm in England.
a rule or law that limits something
He wants the government to impose strict controls on dog ownership.
It is important to find a way to regulate the information shown on the internet, because right now there is no control over the information.
a place where something official, usually a document, is checked
passport/immigration control
I kissed my parents and went to passport control.
the ability to be calm
It took a lot of control to stop myself hitting him.
If you think you are doing something wrong during your test you shouldn't start panicking and losing your control.
causing disagreement or discussion
a controversial issue/decision/speech/figure
The book was very controversial.
From my point of view it is a very controversial issue.
a lot of disagreement and argument about something
There is a lot of controversy over mobile phone towers.
Travelling abroad to work has been a matter of controversy.
the quality of being convenient
the convenience of credit cards
I like the convenience of living so close to the shops.
I think the first reason is its convenience. ... Just by sitting in front of it, you can enjoy TV programmes.
at a time that is convenient to you
We can meet at your convenience.
I look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience.
something that makes life easier
Fortunately, the house has every modern convenience.
Thus, we have many facilities and conveniences in comparison with the past.
easy to use or suiting your plans well
We could meet at either place - whichever is more convenient for you.
A bike's a very convenient way of getting around.
I find it more convenient to be able to do my banking by phone.
What would be a convenient time for me to come round?
If it would be possible for you, I can attend another class at any time which is convenient for you.
near or easy to get to
My new house is more convenient for the station.
It is near the train station so it is very convenient to get there.
in a way that is convenient
The house is conveniently situated near the station and the shops.
First of all, your group has been booked into the Palace Hotel, which is conveniently situated in the centre of Nymegen.
a large formal meeting of people who do a particular job or have a similar interest, or a large meeting for a political party
the national Democratic convention
Where are they holding their party convention?
Conference facilities: Being completely renovated, the historic building of Edessa's Cultural Association is the ideal place for a modern scientific convention.
a usual and accepted way of behaving or doing something
In many countries it is the convention to wear black at funerals.
Nowadays, people tend to avoid traditions and conventions.
traditional and ordinary
conventional behaviour/attitudes/clothes
conventional medicine/farming
I find his art rather dull and conventional.
The accommodation wasn't bad, however our rooms were quite small and conventional.
what most people believe
These ideas about childcare go against conventional wisdom on the subject.
Thus, against conventional wisdom, I think that while a lot of adult problems are caused by money or the lack of it, it is really the ability to deal with money and to see money as a means rather than an end.
a talk between two or more people, usually an informal one
a conversation about football.
I had a strange conversation with the bloke who's moved in upstairs.
But every day we have a spelling test and a conversation with our teacher or in pairs.
to have a conversation
I can just about hold a conversation in Italian.
I know the grammar and many different expressions, and I can hold a conversation with other people.
when the appearance, form, or purpose of something is changed
the country's conversion to democracy
Solar power is the conversion of the sun's energy into heat and electricity.
This 'magic' conversion of energy can be performed in several ways, which result in different degrees of 'dignity' or 'cleanness' for the resulting electrons, freely running through our cables.
to change the appearance, form, or purpose of something
Could we convert the small bedroom into a second bathroom?
What's the formula for converting pounds into kilos?
Even some medieval castles have been converted into museums.
to change to a new religion, belief, etc., or to make someone do this
When did he convert to Islam?
Frederica converted to Catholicism and devoted her life to mentally ill children.
to communicate information, feelings, or images to someone
She always conveys a sense of enthusiasm for her work.
Being an Ambassador for Youth bears lot of responsibility, not only because the person must be an outstanding character and widely well-known, but also because they must behave accordingly and be able to convey a positive message.
to decide officially in a court of law that someone is guilty of a particular crime
He was convicted of murder.
Consequently he was convicted of robbery and murder and was sentenced to 20 years in prison.
when someone is officially found to be guilty of a particular crime
He already had two convictions for burglary.
The conviction of all three protesters caused anger in the local community.
Besides, she had no previous convictions so nobody believed that such a pretty, intelligent and polite woman could do any harm to anybody.
a strong opinion or belief
religious/moral convictions
a deep/strong conviction
In spite of the fact that I respect their convictions, I totally disagree with this viewpoint.
to persuade someone or make them certain
She tried to convince me that I needed a new car.
I hope this will convince you to change your mind.
He managed to convince the jury of his innocence.
She was the one who convinced me to go, and I am glad she did.
certain
My boyfriend says I'd enjoy a walking holiday, but I'm not convinced.
I'm convinced (that) she is lying.
I'm convinced that I would benefit from this experience in the future.
able to make you believe that something is true or right
a convincing argument/explanation
I didn't find the ending of the film very convincing.
The school didn't give us a real and convincing explanation for this.
to prepare food and usually heat it
I don't cook meat very often.
Who's cooking this evening?
He cooked us an enormous meal./He cooked an enormous meal for us.
I would like you to cook Camerounian traditional foods (Ndole, Pistache, Couscous, Khaki).
someone who prepares and cooks food
She's a wonderful cook.
For example my mother wakes up at 4am. She is a cook like me.
a large box-shaped device which is used to cook and heat food either by putting the food inside or by putting it on the top
a gas/electric cooker
For instance I've got my television, radio, computer, a small cooker, a bed, a desk and a sink.
a piece of information stored on your computer which contains information about all the Internet documents you have looked at
You need to enable cookies to use this website.
preparing and cooking food, or a particular way of preparing and cooking food
My mother always hated cooking.
Who does the cooking in your house?
I love my dad's cooking.
I really like it because I love cooking and also baking.
used when you like something or agree to something
You've got your own apartment? Cool!
"We'll meet at ten, then?" "Cool."
That's very exciting. Cool!
good, stylish, or fashionable
It was a really cool gig.
She's really cool.
I got this mega cool T-shirt.
slightly cold, but not too cold
cool water
a nice cool breeze
Sometimes a cool wind blows in Bodrum.
calm and not emotional
She seemed cool and confident.
I remember saying to myself that "this little boy will survive" and after that I felt totally cool and calm and did what had to be done.
unfriendly
She was very cool towards us.
I encouraged him to tell me what was going on and I could hardly believe it when he explained the reason why he had been treating me in a cool manner.
to remain calm in a difficult situation
To be successful in business, you need to keep a cool head in negotiations.
Kevin managed to keep a cool head and took over the navigation.
to become less hot, or to make something become less hot
Allow the bread to cool before slicing it.
In the summer many people were delighted by fountains which cooled the air.
to remain calm
You did well to keep your cool in all that panic.
Whatever the problem is, keep your cool, don't panic.
to suddenly become very angry
She lost her cool and started shouting.
the quality of being cold
the coolness of the breeze
The coolness of the coach made me ill.
the quality of being calm
He was admired for his coolness under pressure.
Finally, a successful person should have their own style and opinion to distinguish from other people, enough patience to wait for important opportunities, a certain coolness to "survive" critical situations, and last but not least, a good deal of luck, which often decides whether you are successful or not.
the quality of being unfriendly
He was a little insulted by her coolness towards him.
James eyed her with a mixture of contempt and admiration for her coolness.
to work together with someone in order to achieve the same aim
The Spanish authorities cooperated with the British police in finding the terrorists.
Several companies are cooperating in the relief effort.
Lime has become a sort of monster, with no consideration for life any more, and Martins decides to cooperate with the police to catch and kill him.
to help someone or do what they ask
I find it very hard to dress my two-year-old when she refuses to cooperate.
Moreover, I am in favour of rules at school because it is very important for children to learn how to cooperate with others.
when you work together with someone or do what they ask you
This documentary was made with the cooperation of Rails UK.
There's very little cooperation between the two countries.
We thank you in advance for your cooperation.
The clubs work in close cooperation with the Football Association.
Thank you in advance for your cooperation in this respect.
willing to help or do what people ask
I found them very cooperative.
You can rely on me - I love children and I am energetic and cooperative.
to deal successfully with a difficult situation
How does she cope with three small children and a job?
It was too stressful and eventually he just couldn't cope.
Tyres generally don't cope well on wet roads.
Moreover she can't cope with life.
a reddish-brown metal used especially for making wire and coins, or the reddish brown colour of this metal
copper wire/pipes
Rosie's hair shone like copper in the sunlight.
Its domes are made of pure copper, inside there's a big bell called "Zygmunt".
to produce something that is similar or exactly the same as something else
They've copied the basic design from the Japanese model and added a few of their own refinements.
Copy the file onto disk.
I will copy the CD onto my computer.
to cheat by looking at and using someone else's work
He was always copying from/off other children, but never got caught.
I'm certain she thought we had copied in the test.
to behave like someone else
He tends to copy his brother in the way he dresses.
He has to eat salads now, in the hope that the kids'll copy his attitudes and eat fresh and healthy food instead of sweets and unhealthy stuff.
something that has been made to be exactly like something else
This painting is only a copy - the original hangs in the Louvre.
I always keep a copy of any official or important letters that I send off.
Could you make a copy of this for tomorrow's meeting, please?
For covering the work I missed, I will ask May on Thursday if I can borrow her exercise book and make a copy.
a single book, newspaper, etc. of which many have been produced
Over a million copies of the book have been sold.
The single with her new song sold more than 15 million copies, now she was a powerful star.
a hard, usually pink or white substance produced by a type of very small sea animal
a coral reef
The main attraction of the place is scuba diving, due to the excellent visibility of the water and the impressive coral reefs which surround the island.
the most important part of a system or principle
core values
Better health care was at the core of the senator's campaign.
The aim of this paper is to respond to a call for proposals from a TV company which is planning to launch a programme called "Making the World a Better Place" and to select the group of people which represents the core idea of this programme.
the hard, central part of certain fruits, such as apples, which contains the seeds
Peel the apples and remove the cores.
So there it was, hidden in nature, occasionally trampled by a stray dog with no other companion than old cans and apple cores.
a crop of grain, or the seed from this crop used to make flour or feed animals
fields of corn
My sister is a farmer and we have to plant yams, corn, beans and other crops.
the point, area or line which is formed by the meeting of two lines, surfaces, roads, etc.
Click the icon in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen.
There's a postbox on the corner of the street.
I've got a bruise where I hit my leg against the corner of the table.
They live just around/round the corner - so we see them all the time.
It's at the corner of East Street and Beach Street.
going to happen soon
Christmas is round the corner and I still haven't bought any presents.
With the FIFA World Cup just around the corner, there certainly is a lot of excitement buzzing in the air.
a part of a larger area, often somewhere quiet or far away
He lives in a beautiful corner of northern California.
Special buses and trams were allocated to give people a lift to the shopping centre practically from any corner of the city.
a difficult situation
She had been in a tight corner before and had always managed to cope.
It is a great pressure, requiring a lot of effort and sense of humour but does work in most cases, helping to find the best way out of a tight corner.
relating to a large company or group
corporate finance
This proposal highlights advisable amendments to the ABC Company's management structure, namely the marketing department, in view of unforeseen corporate losses.
a large company or group of companies that is controlled together as a single organization
a multinational corporation
the British Broadcasting Corporation
She didn't want to work for a big corporation where everything was so impersonal.
Since I was a child, I've always dreamed about being a car designer in a large and powerful corporation like Ferrari, Porsche, Mercedes-Benz, etc.
a dead person's body
There were several corpses in the building.
Evian and I just stood there and gazed at the corpse for a few hours.
accurate, or having no mistakes
a correct answer
Check that you have the correct information.
Is that the correct spelling?
"Your name is Angela Black?" "That is correct."
I must learn more from English people so that I hear correct English.
suitable for a particular situation
correct behaviour
I think that is the correct option because I really like this kind of film!
to show someone the mistakes in something they have said or written
Our teacher normally corrects our pronunciation.
Until now, I have never had someone really teaching me and correcting my mistakes.
to make a mistake or problem right or better
The new software finds and corrects any errors on the hard disk.
For example if I have to write a formal letter or something like this, I use my 'PC' because the paper looks nicer and the computer corrects my mistakes.
a change made to something in order to correct or improve it, or when you make such a change
I made some corrections before handing in my essay.
She was disappointed to see her essay returned with a mass of corrections in red ink.
My new teacher is friendlier and he is more careful with his correction of the work and exams we do.
in a correct way
Have I pronounced your name correctly?
I don't speak English correctly.
to be the same or very similar
The money I've saved corresponds roughly to the amount I need for my course.
The American FBI corresponds to the British MI5.
His story of what happened that night didn't correspond with the witness's version.
Therefore, I would like to ask you for my entrance fee, as this evening did not correspond to your advertisement.
to communicate with someone by writing letters
They had corresponded ever since the war.
Dear Tom It would be wonderful to see you because we've been corresponding for a long time but I've never had the pleasure of meeting you.
similar or related
Draw a line between the words with corresponding meanings.
In terms of the consequences for society as a whole, an increase in life expectancy might pose problems if the percentage of old people increases without being accompanied by a corresponding increase in the birth rate.
a long passage in a building or train
Her office is at the end of the corridor.
The invigilator left the room and walked down the corridor looking for some help.
dishonest or illegal
a corrupt government
I am not saying he is corrupt - I don't believe that - but he commands many corrupt people.
to make someone or something become dishonest or immoral
He became corrupted by power and money.
Maybe wealth can corrupt people's minds and make people weak.
dishonest or immoral behaviour, usually by people in positions of power
He was arrested for corruption and bribery.
I think that both have lost respect because of corruption.
when you cause someone or something to become dishonest or immoral
the corruption of innocent young children
The contrast between those two groups was getting bigger and bigger and it ended up in a destructive war, destructive doesn't refer only to deaths and city damage but also to the corruption of morals.
consisting of people and things from many different countries
London is a very cosmopolitan city.
I chose London because it's a cosmopolitan city, and very near to the other European countries.
the amount of money that you need to buy or do something
The cost of building materials has risen.
The cruise ship was built at a cost of $400 million.
Software is included at no extra cost.
The supermarket chain announced that it was cutting the cost of all its fresh and frozen meat.
The cost of living has gone up.
The country is still the same, the cost of living is still high.
something that you give or lose, in order to get or achieve something else
He rescued four people at the cost of his own life.
She finally got the job she wanted, but at great personal cost.
It's not worth getting into an argument with Tim, as I learned to my cost.
We wanted to travel by car and, to my cost, my friend began to drive the car.
If something must be done at all costs, it is very important that it is done.
We have to succeed at all costs.
One thing was sure: he was convinced he had to save Anne's life at all costs.
If something costs an amount of money, you must pay that amount to buy or do it.
How much did your bike cost?
The trip will cost you $1000.
It costs a lot to buy a house in this part of London.
It cost me £200 just to get it fixed.
How much does it cost?
to cause someone to lose or destroy something valuable
Drinking and driving costs lives.
His affairs cost him his marriage.
However, many people are talking about car accidents which cost human lives.
a set of clothes worn in order to look like someone else, especially for a party or a film or play
actors in costume
a clown costume
The children were dressed in Halloween costumes.
Everything becomes alive with music and dancing, and everybody wears amazing costumes.
the set of clothes typical of a particular country or period of history
Japanese national costume
You also can take some terrific photographs of national costumes, hear music and take part in dances.
comfortable and warm
This room is nice and cosy in the winter.
He showed me into a cosy little room.
I have a very tiny but cosy bedroom.
a small house, usually in the countryside
They live in a country cottage, with roses round the door.
I live in a typical Norwegian cottage with a huge fireplace, and everything is natural and simple.
cloth or thread made from the fibres of the cotton plant
a shirt made of pure cotton
a simple cotton dress
a reel of cotton
Normally, I would prefer my blouses to be made of cotton or silk as these materials make me feel comfortable.
to force air out of your lungs through your throat with a short loud sound
The smoke made me cough.
I coughed all night long.
I kept coughing, my nose kept running!
when you cough or an illness that makes you cough
a dry cough
Emily has a nasty cough.
Because of swimming so much I got a terrible cough and so I had to be sent back to school so that I could be treated properly.
used as the past form of 'can' to talk about what someone or something was able to do
When I was younger I could stay up all night and not get tired.
It was so noisy that we couldn't hear ourselves speak.
I couldn't find the information either but I phoned the school.
used as a more polite form of 'can' when asking someone to provide something or do something
Could you lend me £5?
Could you turn the music down a little, please?
Could you please send it?
used for making a suggestion
We could go for a drink after work tomorrow, if you like.
You could always call Susie and see if she might babysit.
I could take you to a nice hotel.
used to talk about what will possibly happen or is possibly true
She could arrive any time now.
A lot of crime could be prevented.
This new drug could be an important step in the fight against cancer.
This could be a big advantage but on the other hand, books contain more details and sometimes some parts of the book are cut out in the film.
used as a more polite form of 'can' when asking for permission
Could I speak to Mr Davis, please?
Excuse me, could I just say something here?
Could I bring you the missing work to the next class?
used to talk about things that possibly happened in the past or might possibly have happened by some time in the future
She could have been killed.
Let's go to the coast anyway - the rain could have stopped by the time we get there.
Then they thought about the situation and tried to develop a theory about what could have happened with the dead body and who could be the murderer.
used to express certainty that something in the past was impossible or didn't happen
He couldn't have damaged your bike - he was with me all evening.
That book couldn't have been on sale last week - it's only come out today!
The blood froze in our veins, and we were all sure that it couldn't have been anything but a ghost!
used to emphasize that someone is not interested in or worried about something or someone
I couldn't care less what people think.
There was hunger, there was poverty and the king couldn't care less about his people's well-being.
the group of people elected to govern a particular area, town or city, and organize services for it
Edinburgh City Council
The local council has/have decided not to allocate funds for the project.
The town/city council is/are responsible for keeping the streets clean.
Rubbish collecting needs to be arranged more regularly by the city council.
the job or process of listening to someone and giving them advice about their problems
a counselling service
As well as providing a specialist counselling service by experienced social workers, each member of the society needs to create a warm welcoming atmosphere for those who once were rejected by the society.
someone whose job is to listen to people and give them advice about their problems
I saw a counsellor to help me with my anxiety.
It is a burden to society, which has to find a way to create jobs, to employ counsellors to help problem unemployed and to watch out for the safety of the society.
to see how many people or things there are
The teachers counted the students as they got on to the coach.
Count your money carefully to make sure it's all there.
We're still waiting for the votes to be counted (up).
I counted them and there were 5 suitcases.
to say numbers in their correct order
Can you count to ten in French?
What he told me is "If you have any wishes, count 1 to 100 every Sunday for one month".
to be important
I've always believed that happiness counts more than money.
My opinion doesn't count for anything around here.
It wasn't romantic, there were no flowers but Carla knew that what counts is in the heart.
to think of someone or something in a particular way
She counted Tim as her closest friend.
You should count yourself lucky you weren't hurt.
In a way, I think I should count myself very lucky.
to be accepted or allowed as part of something
I've been to sixteen different countries, but I only spent half an hour in Luxembourg, so that doesn't really count.
to include something or someone in a calculation
There are 1500 people at my school, counting teachers.
It was not until I married Paul that I began to receive a bunch of telephone calls from my closest relatives, not counting my mother because she had already become a part of our house.
to forget how many of something there is
I've lost count of the number of times she's arrived late.
I lost count of how often I heard this sentence when I used to work for a drug company.
when you count something, or the total number you get after counting
At the last count there were 410 club members.
At the last count they still had 5 thousand dollars and one night to spend it.
a long flat narrow surface or table in a shop, bank, restaurant, etc. at which people are served
There was nobody at/behind the counter when I went into the bank, and I had to wait to be served.
When I was at the counter, I put down my bags and paid for the serviettes.
a small disc used in some games that are played on a board
Move the counter forwards two squares.
to have the opposite effect to something else
The new road plans run counter to the government's aim of reducing pollution.
The saying goes "money can't buy happiness". However, he seems to run counter to these tenets since he leads quite a pleasant life.
someone or something that has the same job or position as someone or something in a different place or organization
I had a meeting with my counterpart in our other branch.
I feel much more confident at work in terms of both my English and the ability to negotiate with my counterparts.
very many
The song has been played countless times on the radio.
We had to spend countless hours in the cold coach waiting for a bus that could take us to the hotel in Edinburgh.
a noun that can be used in the singular and the plural
Count nouns are shown here with [C].
an area of land that has its own government, army, etc.
Which is the largest country in Europe?
Sri Lanka is my native country, but I've been living in Belgium for the past five years.
The climate is cooler in the east of the country.
I really like this day in my country.
land which is not in towns, cities or industrial areas and is either used for farming or left in its natural condition
He lives out in the country somewhere.
Would you prefer to live in the country instead of a town?
It's in the country, near Sopramonte.
the people who live in a country
The country was shocked by the President's decision.
The country was partying for two weeks.
land which is not in towns, cities or industrial areas and is either used for farming or left in its natural condition
The countryside around there is lovely.
The house is set in 90 acres of beautiful, unspoilt countryside.
Every summer thousands of people flock to the countryside.
I'll take you to the countryside.
the largest political division of a state or country
County Antrim
Westchester County
A county usually consists of several cities and towns and the rural areas surrounding them.
Rutland used to be the smallest county in England, but in 1974 it became part of Leicestershire.
Texas is divided into 254 counties.
Since my family originates from the county of Dalarna, where "Dal" paintings are both very popular and common, I have started to paint a little on my own.
when a group of people suddenly takes control of a country using force
a military coup
The government of the country was formed three years ago after a military coup and is constituted primarily by the nephews of General Tomba, who headed the rebellious troops during the coup.
two or a few
He'll be better in a couple of days.
I'm going away with a couple of friends.
We'll have to wait another couple of hours for the paint to dry.
She'll be retiring in a couple more years.
The weather's been terrible for the last couple of days.
Many economists expect unemployment to fall over the next couple of months.
I've been so busy over the past couple of weeks.
I went there a couple of times and I would love to go once more.
two people who are married or in a romantic or sexual relationship, or two people who are together for a particular purpose
a married couple
A young couple walked into the bar.
The couple skated well throughout the competition.
The couple can say what they want to eat on their wedding day.
the ability to deal with a dangerous or difficult situation without being frightened
I wanted to talk to him, but I didn't have the courage.
People should have the courage to stand up for their beliefs.
He had wanted to do it for a long time but never had the courage.
to decide to do something that you were too frightened to do before
Gerhard finally plucked up the courage to ask Nicole for a date.
Although she had tried a lot she wasn't able to make any changes and it was that day she plucked up courage and left home.
brave
a courageous decision
The people were very courageous and showed an extraordinary sense of calm.
a long green vegetable that is white inside
We had fried courgettes and onions.
I really like hot and spicy chicken with courgette.
a set of classes or a plan of study on a particular subject, usually resulting in an examination or qualification
Tim did a three-year course in linguistics at Newcastle.
They're going away on a training course next week.
I'd like to do a writing course when I retire.
I like my ESOL course because I want to learn more English and improve my English.
used to say 'yes' and emphasize your answer
"Can you help me?" "Of course!"
Yes of course I can come.
a part of a meal which is served separately from the other parts
a four-course lunch
For my main course, I had fish.
For a main course we like potato with some meat.
used to say 'no' and emphasize your answer
"Do you mind if I borrow your pen?" "Of course not."
"Pardon. You said your uncle's will? Would you mind explaining that, please?" "Of course not!"
used to show that what you are saying is obvious or already known
Of course, the Olympics are not just about money.
Of course, I met many new people.
an area of land or water used for a sports event
a golf course
It is a very nice club, it has 20 tennis courts, 2 soccer fields and an 18-hole golf course.
at a suitable time in the future
The results will be sent to you in due course.
I look forward to hearing from you in due course.
something that you can do in a particular situation
I think the best course of action would be to write to him.
However, I believe that the best course of action in this case is to give our student a refund.
during a particular time or activity
In the course of the interview she mentioned her previous experience.
During the course of my studies and internship, I worked not only with people suffering from certain disorders, but also with people who faced problems in interpersonal relationships.
If something happens as a matter of course, it always happens as part of the normal process or system.
Babies were tested for the disease as a matter of course.
The transformation has succeeded so far and caused enormous changes in ordinary life as a matter of course, including eating habits.
the way something develops, usually over a long time
Nuclear weapons have changed the course of modern history.
Civilizations have appeared changing the course of history and they have also disappeared, but they have all left something as a heritage or a legacy.
an area drawn out on the ground which is used for playing sports such as tennis and basketball
a tennis/basketball/squash court
They were penalized for having too many players on the court.
I stayed in a hotel with a swimming pool, tennis court and private beach.
the place where a judge decides whether someone is guilty of a crime
He's due to appear in court again on Monday.
Please describe to the court exactly what you saw.
the European Court of Human Rights
The lack of evidence means that the case is unlikely to go to court.
Two days after, I went to the law court as a witness.
polite and showing respect
We received a very courteous reply.
The library staff deserve congratulations: they are all very courteous and helpful.
polite behaviour
Hotel staff must at all times treat guests with courtesy.
He could at least have had the courtesy to say sorry.
On balance, I think McDonalds should improve the courtesy of members of staff, as well as keeping up the speedy service.
a child of a person's aunt or uncle
My brother's wife and I both had babies around the same time, so the cousins are very close in age.
I could help you with the instruments, as my cousin has a music shop.
to put something over something else, in order to protect or hide it
The light was so bright that I had to cover my eyes.
She covered him with a blanket.
Bring a cap or something to cover your hair.
to form a layer on the surface of something
Snow covered the hillsides.
Cover the pasta with a layer of sauce.
The bandages were covered with/in blood.
The hills are covered by the snow.
to deal with or include a subject or piece of information
This leaflet covers what we've just discussed in more detail.
The book covers European history from 1789-1914.
Dear Teacher, I'm sorry but I won't be able to go to the English class tomorrow. But I can go another day to cover the work I've missed.
to travel a particular distance
We covered 700 km in four days.
Secondly, travelling by car is a very effective way of saving time - for instance you cannot cover long distances with your bicycle.
to be a particular size or area
The town covers an area of 15 square kilometres.
The other suggestion is the flower market, which is very famous for tourists because it covers 2 acres and there are plenty of flowers to buy.
to report the news about a particular important event
She's covering the American election for BBC television.
Should you have your company's channel cover the event, your profits from the advertisements will be innumerable.
to provide financial protection if something bad happens
travel insurance that covers accident and injury
Do you have cover for accidental damage?
to be enough money to pay for something
£100 should cover the cost of the repairs.
This means that only 15% was allocated to cover the cost of entertainment and administration costs.
the outer part of a book, magazine, etc., that protects the pages
Her picture is on the cover of several magazines.
I received it for Christmas in 1991, and I immediately decided to write my name and my address on the cover.
something you put over something else, usually to protect it
I keep my computer printer under a protective plastic cover.
an ironing board cover
financial protection so that you get money if something bad happens
The policy provides £50,000 accidental damage cover.
A mere 2% went on insurance cover.
protection from bad weather or an attack
They took cover under some trees until the rain stopped.
The bodyguards immediately reacted, shooting at the window through which Paul had fired, while the judge took cover under a near car.
the way a newspaper, television programme, etc. reports an event or subject
There is live coverage of the game on cable TV.
Jos is very well known among people who love Formula 2 autoracing and I know there are a lot of them all over the world because of the intense media coverage.
a large female farm animal kept to produce meat and milk
a dairy cow
I like this house because there aren't any neighbours, just cows and fields.
someone who is not brave and tries to avoid dangerous or difficult situations
You didn't talk to her? You coward!
Instead of behaving like a wise grown-up, I behaved like a coward.
behaving in a way that shows you are not brave
This was a particularly brutal and cowardly attack.
Bernard was usually weak, depressed, cowardly and pessimistic, but, on the other hand, when he became popular and famous by taking advantage of John, he was so boastful.
a sea creature with ten legs and a round, flat body covered by a shell, or the meat from this animal
crab salad
Children can look at live fish, crabs and lobsters.
to break something so that very thin lines appear on its surface but it does not separate, or to become broken in this way
A stone hit the window and cracked the glass.
I cracked my tooth when I fell.
The walls cracked and the roof collapsed in the earthquake.
The bottom tank cracked and the sea-water poured into the tank and further into the engine-room.
to tell a joke
He seemed very relaxed, laughing and cracking jokes.
Many members will get the chance to show their talent and we will get to crack some jokes too!
a line on the surface of something that is damaged
Several cups had cracks in them.
Behind the glass doors you could see a Chinese tea-set totally unsuitable for tea drinking as all the cups had cracks but I wasn't allowed to throw it away because it had been presented by some relative and that was enough to turn it into an everlasting treasure.
very early in the morning
He gets up at the crack of dawn.
From the crack of dawn until bed time citizens have to breathe all kinds of gas coming out of cars, bikes or factories.
when bad or illegal behaviour is dealt with in a very severe way, in order to stop it happening
The police are having a crackdown on speeding.
an activity in which you make something using a lot of skill, especially with your hands
the craft of furniture-making/boat-building
rural/ancient/traditional crafts
You will find some interesting Swedish craft work there and get the best shots of the local people.
to have an accident in a vehicle
He skidded on the ice and crashed into another car.
The plane crashed into a field.
Her brother borrowed her motorbike and crashed it.
I crashed my car and here in my city the bus is terrible.
If a computer or computer system crashes, it suddenly stops working.
My computer keeps crashing.
Will the computers crash after New Year?
If a financial market crashes, prices suddenly fall by a large amount.
They lost all their savings when the market crashed.
an accident in which a vehicle hits something
a car/plane crash
They had a crash on the way to work.
She died in a car crash.
Hi, as you know I had a car crash and my car is damaged.
a sudden, loud noise made when something falls or breaks
I heard a crash and hurried into the kitchen.
A loud crash disturbed the silence of the night.
when the value of a country's businesses suddenly falls by a large amount
He lost a lot of money in the stock market crash of 1929.
Regarding the economy of the globe, this intensive trading may lead to a worldwide crash.
to want something very much
a child who craves affection
These people tend to forget the essence of man's heart, which craves only for love, and kindness, and friendship, and loyalty.
a strong feeling that you want or need something
She had a craving for chocolate.
It's a well-known fact that many women of all ages sometimes have a craving for chocolate.
to move on your hands and knees
The child crawled across the floor.
The injured soldier crawled to safety.
I crawled out from under the bed and stood up.
If an insect crawls, it uses its legs to move.
There's an ant crawling up your leg.
She is sort of dusting off her legs and skirt. We can't actually see what is happening. We get there to find out that tens of big red ants are crawling on to her.
to be full of insects or people in a way that is unpleasant
The kitchen's crawling with ants.
a very slow speed
Traffic slowed to a crawl.
Every morning traffic was reduced to a crawl.
a style of swimming in which you move your arms over your head and kick with straight legs
front/back crawl
I can already swim breaststroke and crawl but I am unable to swim backstroke and the dolphin-like style.
the state of being crazy
I couldn't stand the craziness of their household.
My home might, for an outsider, give the feeling of complete disorder, not to say craziness but I can assure you that it was not true at all.
stupid or strange
It's a crazy idea.
You're crazy to buy a house without seeing it.
At the party, we danced, sang and we played many crazy games.
to love someone very much, or to be very interested in something
Mia's crazy about baseball.
I'm crazy about rap music.
to become very excited about something
When he came on stage the audience went crazy.
So when our teachers told us yesterday that a TV company would come and film this project and do interviews with us, everybody went crazy.
annoyed or angry
The constant noise drove me crazy.
Dad went crazy when I told him what had happened.
Be careful because you know computers drive me crazy.
doing something a lot or in a fast way
We worked like crazy to get everything finished.
My heart was beating like crazy and when the ski-boat started its journey along the blue waves of the sea...
the thick yellowish-white liquid that is taken from milk
strawberries and cream
Do you like cream in your coffee?
For dessert I like ice-cream with cream and chocolate sauce.
a yellowish-white colour
We chose cream for the walls.
I'm going paint my bedroom cream in colour.
a soft substance that you rub into your skin
face/hand cream
moisturizing cream
Put some sun cream on to protect your face.
I think that we'll get a good suntan and I didn't forget the sun-cream.
the best people or things in a particular group
the cream of Milan's designers
Last but not least, many Japanese style hotels and restaurants now have square holes in tatami (straw mat) rooms so that foreign visitors can comfortably stretch their legs under the low table without having to be seated on folded legs like Zen monks! Thus you will find it easier to enjoy the cream of Japanese hospitality without tears.
having a yellowish-white colour
a cream shirt
Well, here in Spain the woman always wears a white or cream dress.
to make something happen or exist
The project will create more than 500 jobs.
Charles Schulz created the characters 'Snoopy' and 'Charlie Brown'.
He created a wonderful meal from very few ingredients.
It's important to create a good impression when you meet a new client.
We had to create a new website for the club, and everybody seemed to have great fun.
the act of creating something, or the thing that is created
the creation of a new political party
Their policies are all towards the creation of wealth.
This 25-foot-high sculpture is her latest creation.
The fashion magazines were full of the latest Paris creations.
First of all, since the creation of the virtual world internet, computers have been used to communicate very quickly from one computer to another.
producing or using original and unusual ideas
She's very creative.
creative talents/powers/abilities
creative thinking
Her book is full of creative ways to decorate the home.
I love to be creative.
in a creative way
We have to think creatively about this problem.
I think that our college should have some of this kind of activities, so that students can spend their time creatively.
the ability to produce new ideas or things using skill and imagination
I admire her creativity.
Realistic stories thus, develop our imagination and creativity, which are essential in our lives.
anything that lives but is not a plant
Rain forests are filled with amazing creatures.
Don't all living creatures have certain rights?
Blue whales are the largest living creatures.
There are some sea creatures (some are poisonous) that you have to avoid.
when someone can be believed and trusted
This decision has damaged the President's credibility.
The media source and its credibility play a major role in determining the objectivity and realistic portrayal although there have been cases where even mainstream publications have participated in manipulative alterations.
money in your bank account or on your mobile phone
I was relieved to see from my statement that my account was in credit.
I will talk to you on the phone in a week's time as I don't have enough credit.
a method of paying for goods or services at a later time, usually paying interest as well as the original money
They decided to buy the car on credit.
The shop was offering six months' interest-free credit on electrical goods.
My father spent lots of money without having the cash. Unfortunately a credit loan company helped him.
praise, approval or honour
I did all the work and Amy got the credit for it!
I suppose I should give him credit for his honesty.
I can't take full credit for this meal - Sam did quite a bit too
I took part in this event and I think that you haven't given it enough credit.
a unit that shows you have completed part of a college course
I got three credits for the course.
"How could you get such a result?" her father barked, after seeing her report card which stated only two credits.
If something is to someone's credit, they deserve praise for it.
To his credit, Bill never blamed her for the incident.
He also has good sportsmanship, to his credit.
a small plastic card that allows you to buy something and pay for it later
I paid by credit card.
The wallet contains all my credit cards and my ticket to London.
to move very quietly and carefully
I crept out of the room.
It was Sunday, and everybody else was still sleeping: she crept down the stairs to check the kitchen (could she have forgotten it on the shelf among the cookbooks?).
someone who you think is unpleasant
Her boss is a real creep.
I had no doubt that she was capable (and likely) to have done such a nasty thing. What a creep!
the people who work together on a ship, aircraft or train
cabin crew
a crew member
When I was going back I saw the crew from my plane.
a team of people with special skills who work together
an ambulance/lifeboat crew
a film/camera crew
I recommend that you and your film crew visit Zurich during August, because it's very cold and the weather is mostly bad in January.
a sport in which two teams of eleven players try to score points by hitting a small ball with a bat, and running between two sets of small wooden posts
a cricket ball/bat
We played cricket at the party.
an insect that jumps and makes a noise by rubbing its wings together
We could hear the crickets in the grass.
The distant chirping of crickets was music to my ears.
illegal activities
crime prevention
serious/violent crime
We need tough new measures to fight crime.
a life of crime
The problem is the pollution and the crime.
an illegal act
He has admitted committing several crimes, including two murders.
The defendant is accused of/charged with a range of crimes, from theft to murder.
A knife was found at the scene of the crime.
Bombing civilians is a crime against humanity.
It's about the police in Los Angeles, I think, trying to discover how the criminals did the crimes.
someone who commits a crime
a dangerous/violent criminal
At least he didn't attack me, and he even lent me his cell phone, he was such a gentle criminal.
relating to crime
criminal activity
a criminal act/offence
a criminal investigation
I didn't know he had a criminal record.
In spite of his criminal background I came to believe that man and also like him.
a situation or time that is extremely dangerous or difficult
an economic/financial crisis
The country's leadership is in crisis.
We had a family crisis at the time.
It is a crisis not only for animals but also for the planet.
a very thin slice of potato that has been cooked in oil and is eaten cold
a packet of crisps
I can help sell crisps and drinks.
Crisp cloth or paper money is clean and looks new, with no folds.
a crisp linen shirt
The first impression is that of quiet elegance with white table cloths, crisp napkins, lovely pastel flowers on the tables and thick carpeting on the floors.
Crisp weather is pleasantly cold and dry.
a crisp autumn day
It was one of these beautiful crisp September days when the woods are adorned in autumnal browns and golds.
a fact or level of quality that you use when making a choice or decision
We have strict criteria for deciding which students will receive a grant.
This is because one of the key criteria for being an international commercial centre would be the extensive transport options.
someone whose job is to give their opinion about something, especially films, books, music, etc.
She's a film/theatre critic for the 'Irish Times'.
The play has been well received by the critics.
Finally, I would like to ask for some of the extra budget to be allocated to inviting well-known critics or film staff to our local cinema.
someone who says that they do not approve of someone or something
an outspoken critic of the government
I am not a critic of modern technology and I am not among those people who have pessimistic ideas about it.
saying that someone or something is bad or wrong
a critical report
The report is highly critical of safety standards at the factory.
Some of them are very critical of their food.
of the greatest importance to the way things might happen
The President's support is critical to this project.
a critical decision
It was a critical moment. Tom realized that we have to do something or the problems would be worse.
extremely serious or dangerous
The doctors said her condition was critical and she might not survive.
The doctor only said she was critical, not dead!
giving careful judgments and opinions on something
a critical study of Tennyson's work
In fact, teachers and professors give us the opportunity to broaden our knowledge, sharpen our critical thought and in general to cultivate our mind and soul.
in a way that is critical
They were both critically injured in the crash.
Cars are even more important for emergency situations such as a fire in a house or if somebody is critically ill.
when you say that something or someone is bad
The designs for the new building have attracted widespread criticism.
Another criticism is that there were not enough plays and films.
to say that someone or something is bad
The government is being widely criticized in the press for failing to limit air pollution.
The film was criticized for being too violent.
I had a very good relationship with him. He was always there when I needed him, he advised me, and never criticised me. He just talked with me and made me understand my mistakes.
a large reptile with a long mouth and sharp teeth, that lives in lakes and rivers
a crocodile-infested swamp
My friend started to walk into the water when suddenly a crocodile grabbed her leg.
a plant such as a grain, fruit or vegetable that is grown in large amounts, or the amount of plants of a particular type that are produced at one time
The main crops grown for export are coffee and rice.
We had a bumper potato crop this year.
You can do lots of things that you can't do in the city, such as plant crops.
to go across from one side of something to the other
It's not a good place to cross the road.
Look both ways before you cross over (the road).
Cross the bridge and turn right at the first set of traffic lights.
The train station is near my home. Just cross the road and turn Left and you'll see it in front of you.
If an idea crosses your mind, you think about it for a short time.
It never crossed my mind that she might be married.
The first thought that crossed his mind was to call the police immediately and that was what he actually did.
to travel over a border or line into a different area, country, etc.
They crossed from Albania into Greece.
It was when I was about to cross the U.S. border that I faced my greatest challenge.
to hope that things will happen in the way that you want them to
Let's keep our fingers crossed that she gets the job.
We're crossing our fingers and hoping that the weather stays fine.
Wish me luck, Winnie," she sighed "keep your fingers crossed, please".
to meet someone, especially by accident
Mike has moved away and I doubt he'll ever cross my path again.
We are all socialised by our peers, family and other people who cross our path at one time or another.
a written mark (x), usually used to show where something is, or that something has not been written correctly
Put a cross next to the name of the person you are voting for.
two pieces of wood that cross each other, on which people were left to die in the past as a punishment, or an object in this shape, used as a symbol of the Christian religion
She wears a gold cross round her neck.
That's the reason why this little cross is so important to me.
a place where people can go across a road, river, etc.
a pedestrian crossing
The taxi driver shouted at every pedestrian crossing.
a trip across water
regular ferry crossings from Tenerife to Gran Canaria
On the ferry there are restaurants and a Tax-Free Shop. The crossing takes about 50 minutes.
a place where two roads cross each other
Turn left at the crossroads.
When you go out of the hotel, turn right and at the first crossroads turn right again.
a large group of people who have come together
A large crowd had gathered outside the pop star's hotel.
Shop early to avoid the crowds.
I can become a volunteer to control the crowds.
to stand together in large numbers
Protesters crowded the streets.
However, this is not the case in big cities, since inhabitants from all over the world crowd their streets.
If a place is crowded, it is full of people.
By ten o'clock the market was crowded.
a crowded room
However I think that you should get there by car because the bus is crowded.
extremely important or necessary
a crucial decision/question
Her work has been crucial to the project's success.
It is crucial that the problem is tackled immediately.
Clothes play a crucial part in our everyday lives.
made or done in a simple way and without much skill
a crude device/weapon
Glancing at the crude plan of the building I realised I had no choice but to search every room in order to find the required documents.
rude and offensive
a crude comment/remark
A necessary condition, of course, is a ban on crude words or meanings, as, funnier though such word may make programmes of this sort, they also render them inappropriate for younger listeners.
extremely unkind and unpleasant and causing pain to people or animals intentionally
Don't tease him about his weight - it's cruel.
Children can be very cruel to each other.
The terrorists in the film are very cruel and also have an atomic weapon.
in a cruel way
She had been very cruelly treated.
Many young people and children go and look at various kinds of animals cruelly held behind the bars.
cruel behaviour or a cruel action
The farmer was accused of cruelty to animals.
The methods he used to become the farm leader, the way he ignored the seven commandments, make him cruel - a cruelty he took to the extreme, causing damage to everyone living on the farm except to himself.
a holiday on a large ship, sailing from place to place
My parents are going on a cruise this summer.
Luca gave it to me last year, during our romantic cruise.
to go on a cruise or boat trip
They're currently cruising around the Caribbean.
The end-of-conference party will take place on a boat cruising on the lake.
to break into small pieces, or to make something break into small pieces
Buildings crumbled as the earthquake struck.
It's completely impossible to sleep under those circumstances: a horrible howling that is so loud you can't even hear yourself think; a house that trembles so fiercely you think it's going to crumble any second in front of your very bulging eyes.
to press something so hard that it is made flat or broken into pieces
Her car was crushed by a falling tree.
Thus, in the last chapters, one notices that Ralph and Piggy have become inseparable friends, a friendship which is abruptly terminated by that huge rock that also crushes the conch.
a crowd of people forced to stand close together because there is not enough room
Many people fell over in the crush.
a strong temporary feeling of love for someone
Tim has a crush on Jennifer.
He told me that one of his friends had a crush on me and wanted to know if I liked him.
to produce tears from your eyes, usually because you are sad, angry or hurt
I could hear someone crying in the next room.
"There, there, don't cry," she said.
We all laughed until we cried.
He cried for joy when he heard that his son had been found alive and well.
He always cries and I'm very sad about it.
to say something loudly
"Look out!" she cried.
I cried out his name.
If someone cries their eyes out, they cry a lot about a problem or situation.
She cried her eyes out when he left her for another girl.
It wasn't an easy decision to make. Melanie spent many nights crying her eyes out in bed and trying to convince herself that she wasn't doing the right thing.
someone who gives you sympathy when you are upset
I always had a shoulder to cry on.
I am always there for her and I know I will always have a shoulder to cry on.
a shout, especially one that shows someone is frightened, hurt, etc.
a cry of pain
I could hear the cries of children playing in the street.
As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name. The cry came from the VIP-entrance.
to be very different from something
Her luxury mansion is a far cry from the house she grew up in.
The museum was a far cry from what we expected. Not only were the machines really old and should have been replaced a long time ago, but they were boring as well.
a sound that a particular animal or bird makes
an eagle's cry
Then one could carefully pick one's way through a lot of shallow ponds, which had been concealed by the salty water before, and, accompanied by cries of seagulls, climb Castle Rock.
extremely clear
crystal clear water
You will be amazed by the crystal clear water of the shallow sea and the multitude of colourful fish which you will see as you are exploring the bottom of the sea.
a type of high quality glass
a crystal vase
The crystal vase is a gift from one of my mother's friends.
very easy to understand
She made it crystal clear that she was in charge.
They do learn something of course, but it is crystal clear that they need some help from you to develop their ability, creativity, sensitivity and so on.
a long, green vegetable that you eat raw in salads
sliced cucumber
We asked for three burgers with cucumbers.
to prepare land and grow crops on it
This shrub is cultivated in Europe as a culinary herb.
We're cutting down our forests to cultivate the plants which give us nourishing food.
to try to develop or improve something
She has cultivated an image as a tough negotiator.
Moreover, students are not usually encouraged to attend art or drama classes and cultivate their talents.
the process of preparing land and growing crops
The area was drained so that cultivation could begin.
The basic thing is that people should be provided with better facilities for their cultivation of crops and farming, so they can earn their bread and butter in their own environment.
relating to the habits, traditions and beliefs of a society
cultural diversity/differences/identity
cultural heritage
If you are interested in visiting historic buildings, Palermo is wonderful concerning its cultural and artistic heritage.
relating to music, art, theatre, literature, etc.
cultural activities/events
a cultural centre
There are lots of cultural attractions, and nightly discos.
in a way that relates to culture
It's a culturally diverse society.
What I think is that Rome has to become a cultural pole, and becoming culturally vital, it will gradually look better.
the way of life, especially the habits, traditions and beliefs, of a particular group of people at a particular time
youth culture
She's studying modern Japanese language and culture.
I will tell you about Korean culture when you come here.
music, art, theatre, literature, etc.
popular culture
If you're looking for culture, this may not be the place for you.
I would suggest you to come to visit me here in Genoa, because this is a very unusual city and this year, it is also the capital of culture.
clever at getting what you want, especially by tricking people
a cunning plan
It was a result of a cunning plan they had laid months ago.
a small round container, often with a handle, used for drinking tea, coffee, etc.
a cup of coffee/tea
a cup and saucer
a plastic/paper cup
a coffee cup/teacup
I'd like to drink a cup of tea.
a specially designed cup, usually with two handles and often made of silver, which is given as a prize in a sports competition, or a game or match in which the winner receives such a cup
Anna won this cup in the school squash championship.
The Davis Cup is an important championship.
This weekend we worked hard to win the tennis cup.
a piece of furniture with a door on the front and shelves inside used for storing things
a kitchen cupboard
a built-in cupboard
Is there plenty of cupboard space in your new house?
I think my jacket is in your cupboard!!
to limit or control something
to curb crime/inflation
"If I become Prime Minister, the first issues on my political agenda will be to curb government spending on armaments, to reorganise the bureaucratic system, to reduce the rate of unemployment," he told me the last time I saw him.
to make someone with an illness healthy again
At the time, they couldn't cure the disease.
Harry and the other racketeers had watered down the medicine, so it was useless for curing the meningitis.
to solve a problem
the fight to cure social inequality
I found out that this problem can be cured in only one way and that is not going to English courses.
something that makes someone with an illness healthy again
They are trying to find a cure for cancer.
He was only an intelligent scientist who looked into an AIDS cure. Laura thought he must have found something very special.
the feeling of wanting to know or learn about something
My curiosity got the better of me and I opened the envelope.
Just out of curiosity, how did you get my address?
When the warrior had left, he explored the cave out of curiosity and to his big surprise he found the treasure.
wanting to know or learn about something
I was curious to know what would happen next.
Babies are curious about everything around them.
"Why did you ask?" "I was just curious."
I was curious about it, so I picked it up.
showing that you want to know or learn more
She looked at him curiously.
Everyone around looked at me curiously.
strangely
Curiously, there didn't seem to be a bank in the town.
Curiously, a few days before the murder Emma received a letter from a French girl named Martine saying she wanted to visit them.
shaped like a curl, or with many curls
curly hair
He has got long fair curly hair and big blue eyes.
the money that is used in a particular country at a particular time
foreign currency
Take local currency in case you want to buy something.
happening or existing now
Is that your current address?
Have you seen the current issue of Vogue magazine?
The word 'thou' is no longer in current use.
Dear Mr Thomas, I was interested in your advertisement in the current edition of "Spotlight" and I would like to apply for a job in one of your campsites.
at the present time
The company currently employs around 750 people.
The Director is currently having talks in the USA.
I am 22 years old and I am currently studying trade and tourism.
the group of subjects studied in a school, college, etc.
the school curriculum
Introducing in schools the system of learning only the things one enjoys would make the curriculum impossible to create.
a type of food, originally from South Asia, consisting of meat or vegetables cooked with hot spices
a hot/mild curry
vegetable/chicken/lamb curry
curry sauce
After the film we can go and get something to eat like curry and rice.
a symbol on a computer screen which shows the place where you are working
Put the cursor over the word you want to look up.
The black space reserved for the answer appeared and the text cursor started to blink.
a piece of material which hangs down to cover a window, stage, etc.
Could you close/draw the curtains?
She opened the curtains.
Heavy curtains blocked out the sunlight.
I think it is behind the curtains.
a line which bends round, like part of a circle
a curve in the road
the curve of a graph
The other person was slimmer and she had womanly curves.
a cloth bag filled with something soft which you sit on or lean against to make you comfortable
She sank back against/into the cushions.
I'll go to buy a nice wardrobe, an armchair and a lot of cushions.
something which protects you from possible problems
Overseas savings provide a cushion against tax rises at home.
The only answer for the Spanish situation is that families are acting as a cushion, by giving the youngest in working age accommodation and help.
the legal right to look after a child, especially when parents separate
When they divorced, it was Nicola who won custody of their two children.
My parents were fighting a long and tiring battle in court, over the custody of us children.
when someone is kept in prison, usually while they are waiting for a trial in court
He is being held in custody in Los Angeles charged with assault.
He was taken into custody by Mexican authorities.
Not only was he badly injured during the following years, but he was also kept in custody by the Russians for about two years.
a way of behaving or a belief which has been established for a long time
local/ancient customs
In my country, it's the custom to get married in white.
It is a custom that the bride wears a white wedding dress and she carries a bouquet of flowers in her hands.
normal or expected for a particular person, situation, or society
It is customary for the chairman to make the opening speech.
So it is customary that teachers have longer holidays.
a person who buys goods or a service
a satisfied customer
Mrs. Wilson is one of our regular customers.
Unfortunately I will not be able to go because this week I have to go to Germany to do business with one of our customers.
the place where your bags are examined when you are going into a country, to make sure you are not carrying anything illegal
customs officials
to go through customs
I work as a customs officer and I meet a lot of foreign people every day.
to use a knife or other sharp tool to divide something, remove part of something, or make a hole in something
She cut herself a slice of bread.
He cut the cake into six pieces and gave each child a slice.
Cut the meat up into small pieces.
I usually cut off any bits of fat when I'm preparing meat.
Who cuts your hair?
I cut the cake with my friends.
to injure yourself on a sharp object which makes you bleed
She cut her finger on some broken glass.
Careful or you'll cut yourself with that knife.
The robot had cut its hand.
to reduce the size or amount of something
to cut prices/costs
The company is cutting 300 jobs.
The third thing is Internet business. This way is very good for both consumer and company, to cut the cost.
to remove part of a film or piece of writing
Several scenes had been cut from the English version of the film.
You'll see how the film is cut to fit the story into two hours, more or less.
to mention only the final result or point of something without going into other details
To cut a long story short, he never played baseball again.
Well, to cut a long story short, let's say tuition yes, facilities no.
to have to stop doing something before it is finished
They had to cut the holiday short when her mother was taken ill.
an injury made when the skin is cut with something sharp
He suffered cuts and bruises in the accident.
I have got a broken knee, but apart from that and a few cuts and bruises, I'm all right.
when the supply of something is stopped
a power cut
Those zeros indicate that your household has been affected by a power cut.
a reduction in the number or amount of something
tax/job cuts
Unfortunately, due to government spending cuts he has lost his employment.
a reduction of something, usually to save money
The company has made cutbacks and closed one of its factories.
There have been enormous cutbacks in the budget and children and teenagers are the ones who have suffered the most.
knives, forks, and spoons
Do we have enough cutlery for twelve people?
There is no need to bring your own plates, cups or cutlery as you can use the ones you will find in the kitchen.
very modern and with all the newest developments
cutting-edge design/technology
On the other hand, in the past our previous generation could not enjoy such cutting-edge technology as it was not developed well before 1970.
a document which describes your education, qualifications and the jobs you have done, which you send to an employer that you want to work for
Send me your CV.
These students are the same as me, they want to pass their exams next year and put the degree on their CV.
a series of events which happen in a particular order and are often repeated
the life cycle of a moth
So, the main disadvantage of zoos is that they put animals away from something which belongs to the natural cycle of life.
a bicycle
cycle paths/routes
I am writing about our cycle routes.
to ride a bicycle
I usually cycle to work.
We cycled around Hungary.
the sport or activity of riding a bicycle
We go cycling most weekends.
I want to go swimming and cycling.
someone who rides a bike
He drove into a cyclist.
There was me, my friend and a group of ten people guided by a professional cyclist.
believing that people are only interested in themselves and are not sincere
Many people have become cynical about politicians.
Consequently, we had better not jump to such cynical conclusions and enjoy the competition.
a father
It was lovely to see your mum and dad at the school concert last night.
Can you give me a lift back from the cinema tonight, Dad?
My dad gave me a computer.
happening or done every day or once a day
Exercise has become part of my daily routine.
We back up our computer files at work on a daily basis.
It's very easy to reach because some bus companies provide a daily bus service.
the usual things that happen to you every day
I try to keep exercise a part of my daily life.
Mr. Bean often does funny things in his daily life.
every day or once a day
Take the tablets twice daily.
It's open daily.
relating to milk or products made using milk
dairy products
Meat, poultry, vegetables and dairy products are excellent for your health.
harm or injury
Strong winds had caused serious damage to the roof.
storm/flood/fire/bomb damage
He suffered brain damage in the car crash.
I read in the paper last week that overworking may cause serious damage to your health.
to harm, break or spoil something
Many buildings were badly damaged during the war.
Smoking can seriously damage your health.
They may be using chemicals that could damage the ozone layer.
harmed or spoilt
They're selling off damaged goods at reduced prices.
Both the cars involved in the accident looked badly damaged.
Unfortunately, my father died from a fractured skull and a damaged brain.
used to express anger or disappointment
Damn! I've forgotten the tickets.
It was just a joke, damn it.
slightly wet, especially in a way that is not pleasant or comfortable
The grass is still damp.
This shirt still feels a bit damp.
It was a damp, misty morning.
I have recently noticed that they are stored in dark, damp rooms because the library has no money to restore these places.
to move your feet and body to the rhythm of music
We danced all night.
Who was she dancing with at the party last night?
Can you dance the tango?
She likes to go out with her friends and her boyfriend, play computer games, dance, etc.
when you move your feet and body to music
I had a dance with my dad.
We had a dance at the party.
a social occasion at which people dance
Our band will play at the school dance.
Yesterday I bought two t-shirts and a skirt for a dance at school.
the activity or skill of dancing
a dance class
The performers tell the story through song and dance.
There was a dance floor there and the D.J. was very nice.
a particular series of movements which you perform to music or the type of music which is connected with it
The band played a slow dance.
There will be music and traditional dances from the countries involved in the meeting.
someone who dances either as a job or for pleasure
He's a dancer in the Royal Ballet.
I never knew you were such a good dancer.
He is a very good dancer, too.
the activity of moving your feet and your body to the rhythm of music
Shall we go dancing tonight?
He likes football, dancing, and snowboarding.
the possibility that someone or something will be harmed or killed, or that something bad will happen
Danger! Keep out!
the dangers of rock-climbing
He drove so fast that I really felt my life was in danger.
We were in danger of missing our flight.
I thought Steven was in danger - somebody wanted to kill him or something like that.
something or someone that may harm you
Icy roads are a danger to drivers.
The judge described him as a danger to society.
In fact cars may be a danger to human life in many ways.
If someone or something is dangerous, they could harm you.
dangerous chemicals
The men are armed and dangerous.
I've never played ice hockey - it's far too dangerous.
It's dangerous to take more than the recommended dose of tablets.
I can do anything you want but nothing dangerous!
in a way that is dangerous
She drives dangerously.
He likes to live dangerously.
A driver could lose his or her life by driving dangerously.
to be brave enough to do something
I'd never dare to talk to my mother the way Ben talks to his.
I didn't dare tell Dad that I'd scratched his car.
I wouldn't dare have a party in my flat in case the neighbours complained.
I daren't/don't dare think how much it's going to cost.
Carla didn't dare to look at the door. She just sat there and waited for things to happen.
to try to make someone do something dangerous
She dared her friend to climb onto the roof.
The idea was to hang like that for a while, then push strongly and start sliding on the rope until you got to the other end. My friends dared me to try it.
used to express anger about something someone has done
How dare you talk to me like that!
How dare you call that high standards?!
used to tell someone strongly not to do something
Don't you dare hit your sister!
He had been standing on the exact spot when his friends had made him promise: "Don't you dare forget me, I want letters from you promptly, understand!"
used when you think that something is probably true or will probably happen
I dare say she'll change her mind.
Invent machines that are beneficial, not harmful, and I dare say life will only get better.
nearer to black than white in colour
dark blue/green
dark clouds
He's got dark hair and blue eyes.
I don't like dark colours.
with little or no light
It was too dark to see properly.
What time does it get dark in the summer?
It was a very dark night.
frightening or unpleasant
a dark period in human history
They cannot cope with such matters as finances and studies, so they have to turn to the dark side of society.
when there is no light somewhere
Cats can see in the dark.
I've always been afraid of the dark.
As I was walking alone in the dark, I got really scared.
before/after the sun has gone down
It isn't safe to leave the house after dark.
I want to be home before dark.
Yesterday, soon after dark, I was in the kitchen and I was making my dinner.
not knowing about something because other people are not telling you
They kept us in the dark about their plans.
Peter had always kept her in the dark about the reason for their fight.
when there is little or no light
There was a power cut and the house was in darkness.
Too frightened to start crying, I just stood up and stared into the darkness.
used when you speak to someone you love or like
Would you like a drink, darling?
Don't worry, darling.
to go somewhere quickly
I've been dashing around all day.
I must dash - I've got to be home by seven.
I must dash now, as I have got to go to college.
when you run somewhere very quickly
I made a dash for the toilets.
There was a mad dash for the exit.
I made a dash to catch the plane.
a mark (-) that can be used to separate parts of a sentence
Dash can be used in similar ways to commas or semi-colons.
a small amount of something, often food
Add a dash of milk to the sauce.
The beginners should add a dash of blackcurrant to the beer and taste the difference.
information or facts about something (in scientific English, this can be followed by a plural verb, where the singular form is 'datum')
The data was collected by various researchers.
Isotope data are corrected to the appropriate age for each sample.
I collected lots of data on different air, noise, water, sea and land pollution.
information in the form of text, numbers or symbols that can be used by or stored in a computer
Now the data is being transferred from magnetic tape to hard disk.
Save your data on the hard disk bit by bit - do not wait until the whole article is ready.
a large amount of information stored in a computer system in such a way that it can be easily looked at or changed
We're linked to the online database at our head office.
So, we decided to access our school database and change our test results.
a particular day of a month or year
What's the date (today)?/What date is it?/What's today's date?
Today's date is (Friday) the 20th of June/June the 20th (2008).
What is your date of birth?
The date of the class is 7 June.
a time when something has been arranged to happen
Let's make a date to have lunch.
I'd like to fix a date for our next meeting.
We've agreed to meet again at a later date.
We made a date for our next meeting in the "Mamboo".
a romantic meeting when two people go out somewhere, such as to a restaurant or to see a film
He's asked her out on a date.
She has a hot date tonight.
I'm going on a date with Priseila and my bicycle is broken.
old and no longer useful, correct or fashionable
These unemployment figures are out of date.
The library has got very poor staff and most of it is out of date.
modern, recent or containing the latest information
Great care is taken to keep our database up to date.
Furthermore, the website is not always up to date.
up to the present time
This is her best work to date.
I enclose a copy of my curriculum vitae, which will give you further details about my career to date.
a sticky brown fruit with a long seed inside
I bought a box of dates.
to write or print the day's date on something
Thank you for your letter dated August 30th.
Dear Sir, I refer to the advertisement published in the 'Daily Post' dated 5th December.
not modern
This film seems a bit dated today.
The books are so old and dated that it is no longer possible to use them in the classroom.
your female child
Liz and Phil have a daughter and three sons.
Her daughter is 13 years old.
your son's wife
I get on well with my daughter-in-law.
And do you know what, we met your daughter-in-law.
the early morning when light first appears in the sky
We woke at dawn.
We left as dawn was breaking.
We left at the break of dawn.
The other ones will work from dawn till dusk.
the time when something began
the dawn of civilization
Since the dawn of time, people of all religions have considered that there is a higher power that dictates their destiny.
very early in the morning
He gets up at the crack of dawn.
From the crack of dawn until bed time citizens have to breathe all kinds of gas coming out of cars, bikes or factories.
If a fact dawns on you, you become aware of it after a period of not being aware of it.
It suddenly dawned on them that Mary had been lying.
Suddenly it dawned on him that the rumours about a malaria infestation spreading like wildfire in this area must be true.
a period of 24 hours
January has 31 days.
the days of the week
He runs five miles every day.
I saw him the day before yesterday.
We leave the day after tomorrow.
He was last seen alive five days ago.
I'll be seeing Pat in a few days/in a few days' time.
It will take ten days.
the period during the day when there is light from the sun
a bright, sunny day
It's rained all day today.
These animals sleep in the day and hunt at night.
I was riding on the roller coasters all day.
the time that you usually spend at work or at school
a normal working day
I work a seven-hour day.
We're having to work a six-day week to cope with demand.
She's at home today - she's having a day off.
I must get some sleep - I've got a big day tomorrow.
Tuesday is my free day.
used to talk about the present time
Vegetarianism is very popular these days.
How are you these days?
used to talk about something that happened in the past
One day, I came home to find my windows smashed.
One day, I was reading an interesting book when someone called me.
a few days ago
Didn't I see you in the post office the other day?
For example, the other day I stayed in my house all day watching television in bed.
at some time in the future
One of these days I'll tell her what really happened.
I hope one day you will come with me.
for a long time
They haven't been seen for days.
I had to wait for days while the car was being repaired.
used to talk about a period in the past
In those days, boys used to wear short trousers.
In those days, life was much harder than now.
used to talk about a particular period of time when something happened or existed
in my younger days
This book was written before the days of computers.
Before the days of television, we had the radio.
a period in the past
This place isn't as good as it was in the old days!
In the old days, a scholar could spend years of his life in search of specific information, which now can be easily found at the click of a button!
to stop doing something, especially working
It's almost midnight - let's call it a day.
She decided to call it a day, so Meredith mustered all her courage and wrote a letter to him: "You are not good enough for me," she told him.
to make someone very happy
Go on, ask him to dance - it'll make his day!
Thank you for returning a lost diary; you have made my day!
care provided during the day for people who cannot look after themselves, especially young children or old people
a daycare centre
They simply didn't quit after they had a baby, but continued working as before and put their children in daycare.
to have pleasant thoughts about something you like or would like to happen
She just sits in class daydreaming about her horses.
When we are young, we daydream about becoming famous.
the natural light from the sun
The colours look much better in daylight.
At the same time, we could change the curtains for lighter ones because we need the daylight.
the period of the day when there is light from the sun, or the period when most people are at work
I tend to sleep in/during the daytime and study at night.
a regular daytime job
a daytime telephone number
daytime television
There are different places to visit in the daytime.
happening every day as a regular part of your job or your life
the usual day-to-day problems
Unfortunately modern life is very stressful; the day-to-day office routine makes people feel very stressed and upset with their lives.
not able to think clearly because you are shocked or have hit your head
a dazed expression
I looked at him with a dazed expression.
If you are dazzled by someone or something, you think they are extremely good or exciting
I was dazzled by his intelligence and good looks.
The unique, marvellous, awe-inspiring scene can only fill you with admiration and leave you feeling stunned, dazzled by the wonders of nature.
If light dazzles someone, it makes them unable to see for a short time.
He was dazzled by the car's headlights.
Since it was the first live musical event I had been to, I was impressed by how loud the music was being played and dazzled by the lights.
extremely good and exciting
a dazzling display/performance
The lights, the people, the atmosphere all created a dazzling spectacle where everyone was having fun and singing together, even if they didn't really know the words.
A dazzling light is so bright that you cannot see for a short time after looking at it.
a dazzling white light
Blinded by the dazzling lights of the interior of Luton Airport, I tried very hard not to panic.
not now alive
She's been dead for twenty years now.
The motorcyclist was dead on arrival at the hospital.
He was shot dead outside his home.
We cut down a dead tree to keep the house warm because it was very cold.
If a piece of equipment is dead, it is not working.
a dead battery
The phone suddenly went dead.
I tried to phone my sister, but the phone was dead.
If a place is dead, it is too quiet and nothing interesting is happening there.
The town centre is dead after eight o'clock at night.
Jane was walking through the empty streets of New York. ... The city was absolutely dead.
complete
We waited in dead silence as the votes were counted.
When I finally got inside a terror took hold of me as there was only dead silence.
If part of your body is dead, you cannot feel it.
My arm's gone dead.
to die very suddenly
He just dropped dead in the middle of the show.
We can enjoy our longer lives because we don't have to work until we drop dead.
extremely or completely
The exam was dead easy.
The teaching is dead boring; it really takes you more than one hour per day just to gain the basics and if you want to get in contact with the teachers, you have to spend a fortune.
to oppose something strongly
My parents were dead set against us getting married.
They were dead against the proposed new road.
Some others are dead set against the council's decision and provide some alternative ideas about building a car park in another area.
a time or day by which something must be done
There's no way I can meet that deadline.
We're working to a tight deadline.
I'm afraid you've missed the deadline - the deadline for applications was May 30th.
My last question is about the deadline of your offer.
likely to cause death
a deadly virus
a deadly weapon
Caught without cover, they were quickly eliminated by a burst of Bull's deadly machine gun.
extremely dull/serious, etc.
His speech was deadly dull.
Sports don't have to be boring and deadly serious.
unable to hear, either completely or partly
He's been totally/partially deaf since birth.
She should take care of her family, especially her deaf three-year-old daughter.
If advice or a request falls on deaf ears, people ignore it.
Our pleas for help fell on deaf ears.
His cry for help and for a more meaningful relationship between himself and Mildred invariably fell on deaf ears.
an agreement or an arrangement, especially in business
a business deal
I'll make/do a deal with you - you wash the car and I'll let you use it tonight.
"I want to make a deal with you," he went on.
a lot
She spends a good deal of her time in Glasgow.
A great deal of effort has gone into making the software reliable.
They still need a great deal more money to finish the project.
There will be lots of events which you could see and take a great deal of pictures of.
an agreement, arrangement, or situation that benefits you
I think we got a really good deal on our new car.
The possibility of getting the needed staff from our own departments is absolutely a good deal for the company.
to take action in order to achieve something or in order to solve a problem
How do you intend to deal with this problem?
General enquiries are dealt with by our head office.
Sorry about such a late reply, but I've had some problems to deal with.
to talk to someone or meet someone, especially as part of your job
She's used to dealing with difficult customers.
In my previous job, I used to deal with many, many people.
a person who trades in something
a second-hand car dealer
an antiques dealer
drug dealers
The computer dealer in our street offered me a special combination package.
used at the beginning of a letter to greet the person you are writing to
Dear Kerry/Mum and Dad/Ms Smith/Sir
Dear Jo, I think the new art class is on Friday.
liked very much
She was a very dear friend.
He's one of my dearest friends.
My dear Gina - how lovely to see you!
I decided to go to my dear friend Mary's house after writing a letter saying where I was and why.
If something is dear to someone or dear to their heart, it is very important to them.
The charity was very dear to his heart.
Among all the places I enjoyed visiting, the city of Singapore is especially dear to my heart.
used to express surprise or disappointment
Oh dear! I forgot my keys.
Oh dear! Why do you work so hard?
the end of life
The disease causes thousands of deaths a year.
Do you believe in life after death?
He never got over the death of his daughter.
death threats
After his father's death, he didn't want to study.
extremely bored, frightened, scared, etc.
She's scared to death of dogs.
Preparing a surprise party, her parents had almost scared her to death.
until you die
He was beaten to death by a gang of youths.
She would have been trampled to death as the stampede of furious fans came over her.
to kill someone as a punishment
She was put to death for her beliefs.
He has become dangerous for Jack and must thus be eliminated, put to death.
a serious situation where people could die
Getting water to these people is a matter of life and death.
I told him it was a matter of life and death.
(a) discussion or argument about a subject in which many people take part
Education is the current focus of public debate.
How we proceed from here is a matter for debate.
Over the year we have had several debates about future policy.
Public debates are shown on television and television is the best way for politicians to explain their actions and projects.
to discuss a subject in a formal way
These issues need to be debated openly.
Homelessness is a worrying issue that is being debated by most of the developed countries' governments.
money taken out of a bank account, or a record of this
The statement shows your most recent debits.
to take money out of a bank account
£20 has been debited from my account.
a plastic card used to pay for things directly from your bank account
I can use my debit card in most of the local shops.
an amount of money that you owe someone
He managed to pay off his debts in two years.
The firm ran up huge debts.
She thought of getting a loan but she already had huge debts.
when you owe money to someone
They are in debt to the bank.
He ran/got into debt after he lost his job.
The company is deep in debt.
The consequence is that I'm in debt.
when someone performs or presents something to the public for the first time
She made her debut as a pianist in 1975.
This is the band's debut album.
Pavarotti's grand debut took place in the Royal Theatre of Reggio Emilia.
a period of ten years, especially a period such as 1860 to 1869, or 1990 to 1999
The building was due to be knocked down decades ago.
Life has centred around fast food chains during the last decade and continues to do so.
Decaffeinated tea or coffee is made by removing the caffeine.
Could I have a decaffeinated coffee, please?
to become gradually damaged or to cause something to become gradually damaged
Sugar makes your teeth decay.
Pollution has decayed the surface of the stonework on the front of the cathedral.
The historic buildings are starting to decay.
when something decays
Many of the buildings had fallen into decay.
Furthermore, by having tourism, the authorities of the country will be obliged to restore any monuments which have fallen into decay.
dead
the deceased man's belongings
A picture of a deceased family member brings back lots of memories.
someone who has died
The police have not yet informed the family of the deceased.
The deceased was a 19-year-old girl who had run away from home some months ago.
to make someone believe something that is not true
The company deceived customers by selling old computers as new ones.
The sound of the door closing deceived me into thinking they had gone out.
So if you don't want to feel deceived or offended, think twice before you decide to go shopping.
the twelfth and last month of the year
23(rd) December/December 23(rd)
Their baby was born last December.
Jonathan finishes his course next December.
My parents got married in/during December.
It was one of the coldest Decembers ever.
We can see it on December 15th.
of a satisfactory quality or level
He earns a decent salary.
I haven't had a decent cup of coffee since I've been here.
I think it's a decent place for us to stay for a night.
honest and morally good
Decent people have had their lives ruined by his behaviour.
She should do the decent thing and apologize.
In fact, it had such a bad reputation that nobody "decent" went there any longer.
when you make someone believe something that is not true
He was found guilty of obtaining money by deception.
On the other hand, his deception means that he betrayed his own nation.
If something is deceptive, it makes you believe something that is not true.
Appearances can be deceptive.
One should also remember another common, albeit wise phrase: appearances can be deceptive.
to choose something after thinking about several possibilities
They have to decide by next Friday.
I don't mind which one we have - you decide.
In the end, we decided to go to the theatre.
She decided (that) she would retire to the country.
I can't decide what to do.
He can't decide whether to buy it.
I have decided to paint my room orange.
to be the reason or situation that makes a particular result happen
This match will decide the tournament.
At any rate, science will decide whether it is better to live longer.
the thing that helps to make the final decision
Cost was the deciding factor in choosing these builders.
Personally, I think the quality of teachers, school reputation and facilities should be the deciding factor for parents for which schools their children should be educated in.
a choice that you make about something after thinking about several possibilities
She has had to make some very difficult decisions.
The company will reach/come to/make a decision shortly.
Let me have a/your decision by next week.
It was his decision to leave.
We need to take a lot of factors into account in our decision-making.
Tell me your decision soon.
able to make decisions quickly and confidently, or showing this quality
You need to be more decisive.
a decisive reply
They were attractive, handsome, brave and decisive men.
strongly affecting how a situation will progress or end
a decisive goal/victory
Seeing that advertisement was a decisive moment in my life.
Recently, our Board of Executives has taken a decisive step: from now on, our clothes will also be available for purchase on the Internet!
in a decisive way
We need to act decisively.
Putting your foot down quickly and decisively before things really get out of hand seems sensible.
the flat area of a ship or boat that is not covered
We sat on deck until it was dark.
When I woke up and went on the deck, I saw the skipper who was coming back from the village in the small boat.
an announcement, often one that is written and official
a declaration of independence
Indochina is a French film that deals with the colonial period in Indochina from the Second World War to the country's declaration of independence.
to officially tell someone the value of goods you have bought, or the amount of money you have earned, because you might have to pay tax
Have you got anything to declare?
to announce something publicly or officially
They declared their support for the proposal.
America declared on Japan in 1941.
The country declared independence in 1952.
We should declare the city centre a pedestrian zone.
to gradually become less or worse
His interest in the project declined after his wife died.
The party's popularity has declined in the opinion polls.
It had slightly declined to about 88 per cent in 1992.
to refuse politely
I invited him to the meeting but he declined.
He declined my offer.
We thank you for your offer of accommodation, but we decline it.
when something becomes less in amount, importance, quality or strength
industrial decline
Home cooking seems to be on the/in decline.
a sharp decline in sales
She seemed to be recovering and then she went into a decline.
For the 25-34 age group, a decline can be seen from 2006 to 2010.
to add attractive things to an object or place, often for a special day or period
They decorated the wedding car with ribbons and flowers.
The church always is decorated with beautiful flowers and other things.
to put paint or paper on the walls or other surfaces of a room
We're going to decorate the kitchen next week.
I hate the smell of paint when I'm decorating.
It is all decorated in blue.
something that you put on something to make it look attractive or special, or the activity of putting things on something to make it look more attractive or special
Christmas/party/table/cake decorations
He's good at cake decoration.
In November I joined a day course to learn how to make Christmas decorations.
when the walls or other surfaces of rooms or buildings are covered with paint or paper
This place is badly in need of decoration.
I will start with the new decoration of my bedroom next week.
made to look attractive
a decorative display of plants and flowers
a mirror in a decorative frame
It seems that the decorative role of clothes will have disappeared by the year 2050.
to become less, or to make something become less
During the summer months, rainfall decreases.
The aim to satisfy different interests should not allow the quality to decrease.
a reduction
There has been a steady decrease in the number of visitors.
Their yellow and black stripe has a mysterious beauty (which is the main reason for the huge decrease in the tiger population).
to give most of your energy and time to something
She has dedicated her life to helping others.
I have been interested in these matters but due to my lack of time, I haven't been able to dedicate myself to this investigation.
to say that something you have made or done is to show your love or respect for someone
This book is dedicated to my daughter.
This story is dedicated to my sister to whom I can only feel deep admiration.
believing that something is very important and giving a lot of time and energy to it
a dedicated teacher
I myself am a totally dedicated sports fan and I believe that basketball is the greatest sport on this earth.
designed to be used for a particular purpose
a dedicated news channel
I require a 2 bedroomed flat with a dedicated parking space.
when you are willing to give a lot of time and energy to something because you believe it is very important
She thanked the staff for their dedication and enthusiasm.
Sacrifice and self-denial are cornerstones, together with dedication and commitment to a good cause.
to decide that something is true using the available information
From the contents of his shopping basket, I deduced that he was single.
Two important results are deduced from these figures: living standards in the U.K. have improved dramatically over the last century, and women can be expected to live longer than men.
when an amount or a part of something is taken away from a total, or the amount that is taken
tax deductions
After the deduction of 5% administration expense and 10% entertainment cost, we contributed the remaining 85% of the surplus to the local hospital.
when you decide something using the available information
I worked out the facts by a process of deduction.
My deductions obviously went further, and I found relief in thinking that neither was the story real nor had the lost diary even existed.
to judge or consider something in a particular way
The book was deemed to be unsuitable for children.
Were it not for the fact that we regard our job as adequately paid and providing sufficient free time, it could not be deemed a satisfactory one.
having a long distance from the top to the bottom
a deep river/sea/lake
The water's not deep here - look, I can touch the bottom.
The water's only ankle-/knee-/waist-deep, so we'll be able to get across the river easily.
That place is good for families too, because the water is not so deep but warm.
A deep colour is strong and dark.
deep purple
He is tall and has got black hair and beautiful deep brown eyes.
A deep feeling or experience is very strong.
deep regret
Their son has been a deep disappointment to them.
I fell into a deep depression, and took an extremely long time to recover.
A deep sound is low.
a wonderfully deep voice
"I'm not Gary," a strange and deep voice answered, "I'm someone who wants to warn you that tomorrow, you are going to die."
to fill your lungs with air
Take a deep breath and relax.
But if you took a deep breath after reading the question, don't worry.
one metre/6 ft, etc. from the top to the bottom, or from the front to the back
This end of the pool is two metres deep.
Her father's friend, who is a professional scuba-diver, invited her to do her first immersion on the reefs, 15 metres deep.
when someone is sleeping in a way that makes it difficult to wake them up
He fell into a deep sleep.
And then, he fell to a deep sleep, putting his sack next to him.
serious and difficult for most people to understand
a deep and meaningful conversation
I think we really need to go back to the classics to receive something from the deep thinkers.
giving all of your attention to what you are thinking or talking about, and not noticing anything else
I noticed that Ali and Ben were deep in conversation.
He was deep in thought, chewing on something brown and rectangular.
to make someone start a new and difficult job or activity without helping them or preparing them for it
My first job was to organise a huge conference - they really threw me in at the deep end!
Sometimes we can be thrown in at the deep end and have qualms about making a decision.
a long way into something from the top or outside
They travelled deep into the forest.
He thrust his hands deep in(to) his pockets.
I just fall deep into the story, into the writer's own world.
If you know or feel something deep down, you are certain that it is true, or you feel it strongly although you do not admit it or show it.
Deep down, I knew that I was right.
No, because I feel deep down that it's wrong to put animals behind bars.
If a feeling or a problem goes deep, it is very strong or serious and has existed for a long time.
Hostility between the two nations runs deep.
if someone's knowledge or understanding deepens, it increases.
It certainly helped to deepen my understanding of the situation.
Furthermore, not only can travelling give you an opportunity to make a lot of friends, but your knowledge about this world could be broadened and deepened by travelling.
to become worse or stronger, or to make something become worse or stronger
The economic crisis has deepened.
My frustration was deepened by the fact that the day before I had written in the diary some libellous remarks concerning my parents.
extremely or strongly
I'm deeply grateful to you.
He found her comments deeply irritating/annoying/offensive.
We don't want to get too deeply involved with these people.
After 20 years of marriage, they're still deeply in love.
I was deeply impressed by the long-term cooperation between the zoo and the school.
a large, wild animal that is sometimes hunted for food and has antlers (= long horns) if it is male
a deer park
It would be even nicer if there would be some wildlife in the park, like deer, walking free all over.
to win a victory over someone in a fight, war or competition
Napoleon was defeated by the Duke of Wellington at the battle of Waterloo.
If we can defeat the Italian team, we'll be through to the final.
I still remember when Marcelo became number 1 in 1998 after he defeated Andre Agassi in the final of the "fifth Grand Slam".
to cause someone or something to fail
The proposal to change the rules was narrowly defeated by 201 votes to 196.
I'm afraid anything that involves language learning has always defeated me.
But it was useless, Tina's friends had defeated their plan, and her.
when someone loses against someone else in a fight, war or competition
After their defeat in battle, the soldiers surrendered.
Norwich City have suffered their worst defeat of the season.
The whole team will face serious problems, which may lead to big defeats.
when someone or something is made to fail
At the last General Election, they suffered a massive defeat.
The company was not ready to admit defeat.
After long negotiations with the police, Linda admitted defeat and gave up.
a fault or problem with someone or something
genetic defects
A mechanical defect caused the plane to crash.
There are also people that are overweight and it is not their own fault, because they suffer from genetic defects.
not in good condition or not working correctly
defective goods
The electric installations are defective, some locks are broken, and the ceiling leaks. Under these conditions, it's no wonder the library has no visitors.
the part of a sports team which tries to prevent the other team from scoring points
I play best in defence.
I did basketball exercises for defence.
protection or support against attack, criticism or infection
When Helen criticized me, Chris came/rushed to my defence.
She argued strongly in defence of her actions.
A good diet helps build the body's natural defences.
Movie stars like Brigitte Bardot started strong campaigns against zoos as part of wider battles in defence of animal rights.
the weapons and military forces that a country uses to protect itself against attack
Government spending on defence is increasing.
the defence industry
The USA spent only 2% of money on education; it spent quite a large amount of money on defence (18%).
the lawyers in a court who work in support of the person who is accused of a crime
He was cross-examined by the defence.
a defence lawyer
One good turn deserves another so Anne decided to influence somehow the counsel for the defence.
to protect someone or something from being attacked, especially by fighting
How can we defend our homeland if we don't have an army?
I'm going to karate lessons to learn how to defend myself.
White blood cells help defend the body against infection.
In the fourth one, you learn to defend yourself by doing Karate and in the last section, you could learn fencing.
to support someone or something that is being criticized
The newspaper's editor defended his decision to publish the photos.
They are fighting to defend their beliefs/interests/rights.
Do we know a lot of people nowadays who would be able to take the risk of being a prisoner for 10 or 20 years "just" to defend his beliefs?
to try to show in a court that someone is not guilty of a crime
He has hired two lawyers to defend him in court.
An innocent man is arrested and the court appoints an attorney to defend him.
someone in a sports team who tries to prevent the other team from scoring points, goals, etc.
The Brazilian attack put France's defenders under pressure.
I'm mostly a defender, so scoring a goal for the first time gave me great pleasure!
quick to protect yourself from being criticized
He's very defensive about his weight.
And because the traveller's own value system is challenged, he reacts in a defensive way.
a mistake or fault in something so that it is not good enough
Parents are complaining of serious deficiencies in the education system.
By studying the effects of rain and ways to handle the expected amount of water, one can plan the laying out of the new roads and correct the deficiencies in the present ones.
when you do not have enough of something
a vitamin deficiency
Anaemia, protein deficiency and vitamin deficiency are common problems in vegetarians.
the amount by which the money that you spend is more than the money that you receive
a budget deficit
Unfortunately, this could not be fulfilled by the government due to a huge budget deficit.
to say exactly what something means, or what someone or something is like
In the dictionary 'reality' is defined as 'the state of things as they are, rather than as they are imagined to be'.
Your duties are clearly defined in the contract.
I guess you would have to define the word 'fit' to answer that question.
certain, fixed and not likely to change
The date for the meeting - is that definite?
We need a definite answer by tomorrow.
I'm really excited about your definite plans to come.
the grammatical name for the word 'the' in English, or the words in other languages which have a similar use
'The City', referring to the financial area of London, takes a definite article.
without any doubt
Have you definitely decided to go to America?
He definitely said he'd be here.
So if I were you, I would definitely stay in the city.
used after an adverb in short, negative replies
"Do you think the work will be finished by June?" "Definitely not."
That's nice, but do you think that money is all that matters? Definitely not!
an explanation of the meaning of a word or phrase
a dictionary definition
What is the definition of 'mood'?
He tried to give a definition of friendship.
how clear an image of something is in a photograph or on a screen
high-definition TV
There is a slight loss of definition in the picture quality on transfer.
And, do not forget to appreciate the keyboard work from the legendary Tony Banks, and the spectacular guitar-playing from Mike Rutherford, all of them surrounded by three huge high-definition screens.
certain, clear, and not likely to change
a definitive answer
I know many people who offer easy and definitive answers to every question.
to refuse to obey someone or something
Some of these children openly defy their teachers.
Jack was the only one, or the most conspicuous of all, to defy him.
to be impossible to believe/describe/explain, etc.
His attitude defies belief.
The horror of those endless days, when the whole family was as if in suspension not knowing the final diagnosis, defies any description.
a unit for measuring temperature, shown by the symbol ° written after a number
Water boils at 212 degrees Fahrenheit and 100 degrees Celsius/Centigrade.
Today it is very windy and too cold for bathing, just about 15 degrees.
a qualification given for completing a university course
"What degree did you do at York?" "Geography."
She's got a physics degree/a degree in physics from Oxford.
I completed my languages degree course at U.P.N University.
an amount or level of something
This job demands a high degree of skill.
A good society depends on the degree to which people are able to trust each other.
Can you imagine the degree of pollution you absorb in crossing London every morning by bicycle?
a small level or amount of something
There was some degree of truth in what she said.
The plan involves a degree of risk, but it is worth trying.
Nevertheless, some degree of freedom is obviously necessary for the healthy development of a young individual.
to make something happen at a later time than originally planned or expected
My plane was delayed by an hour.
Could we delay the meeting a few days?
The bus was delayed and I decided to go on foot.
to cause someone or something to be slow or late
I was delayed by traffic.
The roads were crowded with a lot of traffic, so I got really delayed.
when you have to wait longer than expected for something to happen, or the time that you have to wait
An accident caused long delays on the motorway.
There has been a delay in the book's publication.
It was terrible at Heathrow airport because my flight had a delay of over two hours.
immediately
This problem needs to be dealt with without delay.
Firstly, the programme began on time at midday without delay.
someone who is sent somewhere to represent a group of people, especially at a meeting
The delegates were all given badges to wear.
I participated at the opening of the new Arts Centre as a delegate from my college.
to give someone else part of your work or some of your responsibilities
He needs to learn to delegate or he'll never get everything done.
Let me call him Mr. X. His success is based on various qualities of modern leadership: he delegates as much responsibility as possible to subordinates and gives them all competence to carry out their tasks.
a group of people who have been chosen to represent a much larger group of people
a delegation of Chinese officials
For instance, two weeks ago I had to go to Kiev to work as a translator with a delegation at the Ukrainian Central Bank.
to remove something, especially from a computer's memory
All names have been deleted from the report.
I didn't take notice of the email and deleted it again.
done intentionally or planned
a deliberate attack/insult/lie
This was a deliberate attempt to mislead us.
I'm sure that his deliberate intention with this was to make us get closer.
intentionally
I'm sure he says these things deliberately to annoy me.
Many of them choose the bicycle deliberately, just to have at least a small amount of exercise before and after the hours they spend sitting at their desks.
soft, light or gentle
a delicate flavour
a delicate shade of pink
She liked his delicate skin and his body's warmth.
easy to damage or break
delicate china
Delicate plants need to be kept in a greenhouse during the winter.
Although you told me I can make use of anything, I'd like to make sure that it isn't a problem to use such delicate things as the computer and the CD player?
needing to be handled with great care or skill
I need to speak to you about a rather delicate matter/question.
The pay negotiations have reached a delicate point/stage.
Repairing damaged nerves is a very delicate operation/process.
Being aware of the two proposals our local government is considering in order to solve the apparently unavoidable matter of traffic in our beloved city, I feel compelled to offer my views on such a delicate subject.
having a thin, attractive shape
delicate hands
Suddenly a shadow moved among the trees and a surprisingly beautiful and delicate woman walked towards me.
having a very pleasant taste or smell
a delicious cake
The delicious smell of freshly-made coffee came from the kitchen.
This wine is delicious.
I love it because they make delicious hamburgers.
(something or someone that gives) great pleasure, satisfaction or happiness
The children screamed with delight.
My sister's little boy is a real delight.
I read your letter with great delight.
He seems to take great delight in teasing his sister.
At midnight fireworks covered the concert hall and I, as well as the rest of the spectators, felt excitement and delight.
very pleased
We're delighted with our new house.
I was delighted at/by your news.
I'm absolutely delighted that you can come.
We'd be delighted to come to dinner on Friday.
I've just seen your letter and I'm really delighted to have won the first prize in your competition.
very pleasant, attractive, or enjoyable
We had a delightful evening.
A table was laid with a lot of delightful food and a beautiful cake was in the centre of it.
to take things such as goods, letters and parcels to people's houses or places of work
Mail is delivered to our office twice a day.
The shop is delivering our new bed on Thursday.
You have to deliver newspapers to the town centre's shops.
to speak formally to a group of people
The priest delivered a passionate speech against war.
Then, he delivered a speech to the public.
to achieve or do something that you have promised to do, or that people expect you to do
The company failed to deliver the high-quality service that we expect.
I can also help as a team-leader to help others to deliver the right services.
when things such as goods, letters, or parcels are taken to people's houses or places of work
a delivery van
We get two deliveries of mail a day.
You can pay for the carpet on delivery.
We expect to take delivery of our new car next week.
I called for a delivery from Pizza Hut and after that went to study.
to ask for something in a way that shows that you do not expect to be refused
I demanded an explanation.
I demand to see the manager.
She demanded that he return the books he borrowed from her.
I demand a full refund or I will be forced to take this matter further.
to need something such as time or effort
This job demands a high level of concentration.
I would say that driving a car demands a lot of responsibility.
a strong request
You can't give in to children's demands all the time.
The government is unlikely to agree to the rebels' demands for independence.
They received a final demand for payment.
Of course only when my demands are logical.
a need for something to be sold or supplied
There was little demand for tickets.
I believe we have to stop the demand for ivory!
wanted or needed in large numbers
Good teachers are always in demand.
Nevertheless, people will always use cars and vehicles, so petrol will always be in demand.
needing a lot of time, attention or energy
She's a very demanding child.
a demanding job
Although the job was demanding I enjoyed it.
a system of government in which people elect their leaders, or a country with this system
The early 1990s saw the spread of democracy in Eastern Europe.
From then on it represented democracy and freedom until Hitler took over power in January 1933.
based on the principles of democracy
We must accept the results of a democratic election.
If we regard ourselves as modern people, we must be democratic enough to release them.
to completely destroy a building, especially in order to use the land for something else
A number of houses were demolished so that the supermarket could be built.
The building was demolished, and so was the dream of a house of their own.
to show that an idea or argument is wrong
He completely demolished my argument.
to show or prove that something exists or is true
These problems demonstrate the importance of strategic planning.
These figures clearly demonstrate the size of the economic problem facing the country.
Research has demonstrated that babies can recognize their mother's voice very soon after birth.
The results were amazing, the group managed to demonstrate that the learning capacity increased a lot with respect to traditional methods.
to march or stand with a group of people to show that you disagree with or support someone or something
Thousands of people gathered to demonstrate against the new proposals for universities.
Maybe the RSPCA should demonstrate, to show that it's not acceptable. We have to stand up for their rights! Yesterday I heard that animal rights activists have met the prime minister.
to show something and explain how it works
The teacher demonstrated how to use the equipment.
He's got a job demonstrating kitchen equipment in a department store.
I could demonstrate to people how to create compost pits and use kitchen waste to generate compost for their gardens.
to express or show that you have a feeling, quality, or ability
He has demonstrated a genuine interest in the project.
As a result, he does not allow himself to demonstrate any emotion apart from anger.
when a group of people march or stand together to show that they disagree with or support something or someone
The students are holding a demonstration to protest against the increase in their fees.
Protesters staged an anti-war demonstration in front of the US embassy.
There were many demonstrations and violence.
showing how to do something, or how something works
Let me give you a demonstration of how the camera works.
a cooking demonstration
Some of our workers will give you a demonstration on how they produce, step by step, some of the world's best-known rings and necklaces.
proof that something exists or is true
This disaster is a clear demonstration of the need for tighter controls.
Most women are now allowed to wear trousers and this is a demonstration of the change of women's role in society throughout the years.
when you say that something is not true
a denial of his guilt
Although everyone past forty claims to be relieved not to be twenty anymore, most of them miss the excitement of the days when everything was less serious, when fun was a top priority and responsibilities lost somewhere close to denial.
thick, strong, cotton cloth, often blue in colour, used especially for making jeans
a denim jacket and jeans
If you have time to go shopping you could buy me a pair of blue denim jeans (size 30).
thick and difficult to see through
dense fog
a dense forest
"Don't be afraid and don't run" shouted someone from the dense forest.
with a lot of things close together
England was once a densely wooded country.
Mexico City is one of the most densely populated cities in the world.
It's densely populated and with that the ugliness of densely populated places follows.
the number of people or things in a place when compared with the size of the place
The area has a high population density.
However, the factors of population density and transport systems in some regions must not be ignored during this analysis.
relating to the teeth
dental treatment
In Kingsthorp you have lots of GPs and dental surgeries.
someone who examines and repairs teeth
You should have your teeth checked by a dentist at least twice a year.
She is a dentist and can speak several languages.
to say that something is not true
Neil denies that he broke the window, but I'm sure he did.
Neil denies breaking the window.
We cannot deny that technology has changed our lives.
to not allow someone to have or do something
Her request for time off work was denied.
No one should be denied a good education.
The goalkeeper denied him his third goal.
I was denied the opportunity of learning French at school.
Should wild animals be kept in cages, and denied their freedom so that we can have the pleasure of watching them at zoos?
a substance that you put on your body to prevent or hide unpleasant smells
I always use deodorant.
On the other hand, men require regular supplies of shaving lotions, shampoo, deodorant, and many more things too.
to go away or leave, especially on a journey
The plane departs at 6.00 a.m.
The train for London departs from Platform 2.
The boat departs from King's Bridge.
a part of an organization such as a school, business or government which deals with a particular area of study or work
the geography department/the department of geography
The accounts department is/are having a Christmas party this week.
the Department of Health and Social Security
Then we went down to the Design and Technology department and the English department.
a large shop divided into several different parts, each of which sells different things
First we'll go to May's department store, because things are so cheap there.
when someone or something leaves a place, especially to start a journey to another place
There are several departures for Paris every day.
Our departure was delayed because of bad weather.
departure time
Now I am just waiting for the day of departure.
used to say that you are not certain about something because other things affect your answer
"Are you coming out tonight?" "It depends where you're going."
It depends how you want to spend your holidays.
when you need someone or something all the time in order to exist or continue
Our society needs to reduce its dependence on the car.
The dependence on oil is a menace because oil reserves will disappear and because at this time we have no other invention to replace it.
needing the support of something or someone in order to continue existing or operating
He has three dependent children.
It's very easy to become dependent on sleeping pills.
If I went to school by car I would be dependent on my father.
influenced by or decided by something
The amount of tax you pay is dependent on how much you earn.
The benefits for a traveller will be dependent upon the purpose for which someone travels.
to represent someone or something in a picture or story
The cartoon depicts the president as a vampire.
A picture depicts an image that allows us different feelings, depending on the moment and the sensations we experienced while the picture was shot.
a payment that you make immediately when you decide to buy something, as proof that you will really buy it
They've put down a deposit on a house.
How many days in advance do we have to make our reservation? I also wonder if there is a deposit that we have to pay.
an amount of money that you pay into a bank
to make a deposit
Now, you can make a deposit, have a record of your expenses, transfer funds from one account to another and even pay your credit card .
an amount of money that you pay when you rent something, and that is given back to you when you return it without any damage
Did you get your deposit back?
I told the estate agent I was interested, paid my deposit and moved in within a week.
a layer of a substance that has developed from a natural or chemical process
deposits of iron ore
When these foods are taken in excess quantities, the digestive system converts the bits that are useful to the body and the rest are stored as fat deposits in different parts of the body.
to put money into a bank or valuable things into a safe place
She deposited $150,000 in a Swiss bank account.
Now, you can deposit money, have a record of your expenses, transfer funds from one account to another and even pay your credit card.
unhappy and without hope for the future
He seemed a bit depressed about his work situation.
She became deeply depressed when her husband died.
I felt depressed and decided to go to live in another city.
A depressed country, area, or economy does not have enough jobs or business activity.
an economically depressed area
Our area is getting closer to a depressed area rather than a peaceful and nice one.
making you feel unhappy and without hope for the future
I find this weather so depressing.
Her letter made depressing reading.
It was very depressing watching the news on television tonight.
It's depressing to think that we've got five more years of this government!
It was really depressing, seeing people drinking and having fun when I just had to work.
when you feel very unhappy, or a mental illness that makes you feel very unhappy and anxious for long periods
If you suffer from depression, it's best to get professional help.
My mum always worried about my sister because of her shyness and depression.
a time when there is not much business activity
The stock market crash marked the start of a severe depression.
We are just coming out of a financial depression, and companies have had to lay off thousands of people.
the state of not having enough of something
sleep deprivation
Often it has been seen that children suffering from extreme deprivation in their childhood can become deviant as they grow up.
to take something, especially something necessary or pleasant, away from someone
He claimed that he had been deprived of his freedom/rights.
You can't function properly when you're deprived of sleep.
We shouldn't deprive our music fans of this wonderful event, that can only enrich our city's cultural life.
not having enough food, money, and the things that you need to have a normal life
children from deprived backgrounds
It is true that possibly, because of a deprived childhood in which every purchase had to be considered carefully, a person learns to manage his finances.
the distance down either from the top of something to the bottom, or to a distance below the top surface of something
the depth of a lake/pond
There are very few fish at depths below 3000 metres.
The river froze to a depth of over a metre.
But suddenly Laura did not feel any fear anymore and within a second she jumped into the air and fell into the endless depth of the Grand Canyon.
when you have serious qualities or the ability to think seriously about something
Terry lacks depth - he's a very superficial person.
Her writing shows astonishing depth.
Jo has hidden depths.
I think that the main reason why someone has to read this book twice is the strength and depth of the two main characters: Donald Woods and Steve Biko.
in a very detailed way
With access to the Internet, students can do their homework in greater depth.
I would love to learn English in more depth during the summer.
how much someone knows or feels about something
She was amazed at the depth of his knowledge.
More and more people seem to take refuge in the depth of his philosophy now.
not having the knowledge, experience, or skills to deal with a particular subject or situation
When they start talking about philosophy, I'm completely out of my depth.
It was my first day of school. What I can remember is that I really felt out of my depth: my parents were so happy that I couldn't succeed in telling them that I was terribly frightened and that the only thing that I wanted was my doll.
someone who has the second most important job in an organization
the deputy Prime Minister
If you would like to have a teacher on your side, for general questions, I would propose our deputy principal Mr Brown.
to get a positive feeling or advantage from someone or something
I derive great pleasure from gardening.
Last but not least, it is a fact that people derive pleasure from being in a position to have the things they desire and can afford to buy.
to go or come down
The path descended steeply into the valley.
Jane descended the stairs.
Paul slowly descended to the river and sat down on the grassy bank.
someone who is related to someone who lived a long time ago
She is a descendant of Queen Victoria.
Someone born poor in the country will never have a chance to heighten his social status, and generations later, his descendants will be poor as well.
to say or write what someone or something is like
Can you describe your bag?
He described the painting in detail.
Let me describe (to you) how it happened.
She described Gary as shy.
I would like to describe the food from my country.
something that tells you what something or someone is like
Write a description of your favourite seaside resort.
Your essay contains too much description, and not enough discussion of the issues.
She has given the police a very detailed/full description of the robber.
Here's a description of my bedroom.
a large, hot, dry area of land with very few plants
the Sahara Desert
They were lost in the desert for nine days.
I'm on holiday in Tunisia near "Djerba". Yesterday morning I saw many camels in the desert.
If a place is deserted, it has no people in it.
a deserted street
Too often have I seen deserted city centres caused by loss of trade, centres subject to graffiti, dirt and vandalism.
If you deserve something good or bad, it should happen to you because of the way you have behaved.
After all that hard work, you deserve a holiday.
Chris deserves our special thanks for all his efforts.
I hope they get the punishment they deserve.
They certainly deserved to win that match.
I wish you happiness, you deserve it.
the way in which something is planned and made
I don't like the design of this kettle.
The building was originally Victorian in design.
a serious design fault
The car has some excellent design features.
I was looking to find a good bicycle with a nice design.
the art of making plans or drawings for something
She's an expert on kitchen/software design.
He's studying design at college.
You know that my subject is design.
a pattern or decoration
a floral design
Last year I made and sold more than 200 pairs of knitted socks and because of that I got a prize from The Swedish Handcraft Company for the wonderful and original design on my socks.
a drawing which shows how an object, machine, or building will be made
Engineers are working on the new designs.
To finish some of your designs on time you could take them home and continue them there or you could work for longer in your office.
to draw or plan something before making it
Who designed this building/dress/furniture?
This range of clothing is specially designed for shorter women.
It was built in 1570 and designed by the Italian architect Morando.
to have been planned or done for a particular purpose
This dictionary is designed for advanced learners of English.
These measures are designed to reduce pollution.
The end-of-conference party is designed to give rough ideas about many different cultures.
someone who draws and plans how something will be made
a fashion/software designer
After five months, she was working as a co-designer with the best Italian designer, although she was just a student.
made by a famous or fashionable designer
designer jeans/sunglasses
I can't afford designer labels/designer label clothes.
People like designer clothes like Armani, Chanel and so on.
worth having and wanted by most people
Reducing class sizes in schools is a desirable aim.
It's regarded as a highly desirable job.
The house is in a very desirable area of the city.
It is desirable that they include showers, although a bath tub would be nice, too.
a strong feeling that you want something
I certainly have no desire to have children.
There is a strong desire for peace among the people.
She had a strong desire to go back to her home country before she died.
Several people have expressed a desire to see the report.
I had such a desire to go to the disco that I decided to go even without my parents' permission.
to want something
You can have whatever you desire.
Indeed, the location of this hotel will allow all of us to do whatever we desire.
the effect/result/shape, etc. that is wanted
Her medicine seems to have had the desired effect.
The sentence had had the desired effect of calming down the clients.
a type of table that you can work at, often one with drawers
an office/school desk
She sat at her desk writing letters.
He had a pile of papers on his desk.
There is a television, a stereo, a computer, a big bed and a desk with a chair.
a computer screen that contains icons that represent files, programs and other features of the computer
The menu bar with its windows is one of the features of the desktop.
a computer that is small enough to fit on a desk
I can download from my desktop to my mobile phone.
The computer I bought is a beautiful, new, white desktop.
a feeling of having no hope
a mood/sense of despair
They're the depths of despair over/about the money they've lost.
Almost in despair, I came out of the bathroom and tried my best to look for a candle.
extremely worried or frightened and ready to do anything to change the bad situation you are in
The doctors made one last desperate attempt/effort to save the boy's life.
They made a desperate appeal for help.
I was almost desperate, trying to think about any possible solution to my problem, but the more I thought, the bigger was my problem, because hours went by.
needing or wanting something very much
They are desperate for help.
He was desperate to tell someone his good news.
She was 19 and in desperate need of a boyfriend.
A desperate situation is very serious or bad.
The economy is in a really desperate situation.
In desperate situations one may even think that our only task in this world is to face and try to overcome everyday problems.
extremely or very much
He was desperately ill.
I'm not desperately keen on football.
He was desperately in love with her.
They desperately wanted a child.
I desperately need a bicycle as a bicycle competition is going to take place in our city.
in a way that shows you are frightened and ready to try anything to change a situation
They fought desperately for their lives.
He desperately tried to keep the stalking sharks at bay, but he couldn't succeed.
the state of being desperate
I was overcome by a sense of desperation.
Many are driven to desperation and turn to stealing to survive.
used to say that something happened or is true, although something else makes this seem not probable
I still enjoyed the week despite the weather.
Despite claims that the product is safe, many people have stopped buying it.
He managed to eat a big lunch despite having eaten an enormous breakfast.
Despite having to share a bedroom with my three cousins, I feel very comfortable.
used to refer to a situation which is surprising in relation to something that is true or happens
The company has been forced to reduce its price, despite the fact that the offer has been very popular.
The advantages of the kind of life that people had years ago is that they could eat more fruit and vegetables than us. However, there are advantages for us too, because despite the fact that we eat more fast food, we do more exercise than they did.
sweet food eaten after the main part of a meal
a dessert fork/spoon
For dessert there's apple pie, cheesecake or fruit.
If you make the main course, I'll make a dessert.
I always order a t-bone steak with salad, and for dessert a piece of chocolate cake.
the place where someone or something is going
We arrived at our destination tired and hungry.
His letter never reached its destination.
The Caribbean is a popular tourist/holiday destination.
The journey to the destination lasted about an hour.
the things that will happen to someone in the future
At last she feels in control of her own destiny.
It was our parents' destiny, it is our destiny and is going to be our children's destiny, too.
a power that some people believe controls what will happen in the future
Nick said it was destiny that we met.
If anybody ever asked me if I believed in destiny, I would hesitate.
to damage something so badly that it does not exist or cannot be used
Most of the old part of the city was destroyed by bombs during the war.
The accident seemed to have completely/totally destroyed his confidence.
The film described a terrible period of our history when a lot of people died and a lot of cities were destroyed.
when something is destroyed
Many people are very concerned about the destruction of the rainforests.
Unusually high winds left a trail of destruction over southern Britain.
weapons of mass destruction
With the ongoing industrialisation and, for example, the destruction of the rain forest men have taken or destroyed the natural places of several hundred species all over the world.
a detached building is one that is not joined to another building
They have a detached 5-bedroom house in Surrey.
I live in a detached house in the countryside with my two friends, who are married.
If someone is detached, they do not feel involved with someone or emotional about something.
As a nurse, I see some very distressing things, but I try to stay detached.
Whereas Olivia was very much attracted by and interested in India's mysteries, Douglas had a much more detached view of India.
information about someone or something
I've sent off for the details of a job I saw advertised in the paper.
They haven't given me any details yet.
A police officer took down the details of what happened.
Here are the details you asked for.
one of many facts or pieces of information about something
She insisted on telling me every single detail.
We don't know the full/precise details of the story yet.
Consequently we want to know every single detail about them and their lives.
including or considering all the information about something or every part of something
We haven't discussed the matter in detail yet.
The book described her sufferings in great detail.
I'm really sorry that I didn't write back earlier, but to make up for this I will answer your questions in detail!
to tell or include all the facts about something
I won't go into detail over the phone, but I've been having a few health problems recently.
The longer document goes into more detail about the experiments.
In one of his books he really goes into detail about how children treat other children who have difficulties with their "new" language.
giving a lot of information
A witness gave a detailed description of the man.
We ran until we arrived at the police station where we gave a detailed description of that man and what had happened.
to discover or notice something, especially something that is difficult to see, hear, smell, etc.
Some sounds cannot be detected by the human ear.
This special camera can detect bodies by their heat.
The kind of contamination that can be detected and observed most easily is the air pollution.
someone, especially a police officer, whose job is to discover information about a crime
a private detective
detective stories
I know that you love detective stories.
to become worse
Her condition deteriorated rapidly.
Otherwise, the situation will deteriorate more and more.
when someone continues trying to do something, although it is very difficult
Andy Murray will need great determination and skill to win this match.
Mandela tried to better the political situation of South Africa - he was strong enough to fight, he had determination.
to discover the facts or truth about something
The doctors are still unable to determine what is wrong.
You can use a simple test to determine whether the paint contains lead.
Our feelings about the issue led our class to direct a survey among local residents in Fordham, in order to determine statistically how often the latter use Greendale Park.
to decide what will happen
Her exam results will determine which university she goes to.
The army's response was determined by a combination of political and social factors.
It considers the reasons for these developments and highlights the trends which will determine the future of the job market.
wanting to do something very much, and not letting anyone stop you
I'm determined to get this piece of work finished today.
She's sure to get the job she wants - she's a very determined person.
I am determined to study computer engineering and pursue my education overseas.
in grammar, a word which is used before a noun to show which particular example of the noun you are referring to
In the phrases 'my first boyfriend' and 'that strange woman', the words 'my' and 'that' are determiners.
something that stops people doing something because they are afraid of what will happen if they do
They've installed a security camera as a deterrent to thieves.
I also think that the assistance that the state provides acts as a deterrent in the sense that, in Britain for example, the income support or family credit can actually be higher than what some people can earn in a week of hard work: so, what is the point of working?
harmful or damaging
a detrimental effect
The truth is that the situation in which we now find ourselves due to the industrialisation of countries has reached crisis point and will probably have a detrimental effect on the environment in the years to come.
very shocked and upset
She was devastated when her husband died.
They were devastated by the terrible news.
To begin with, everyone was devastated at how long we had to wait at the airport, as the flight to Dublin was late.
making someone very shocked and upset
Despite the devastating news, no one is giving up hope.
It can be really devastating for such a person to experience it.
causing a lot of damage or destruction
The fire has had a devastating effect on the local wildlife.
We are all aware of the devastating impact that factories have on the environment, not to mention the cars whose numbers multiply day-by-day.
serious damage caused by a violent event
The tornado has already left a trail of devastation through four states from Nebraska to Missouri.
As you might know, this is one of the few green areas that has survived the devastation suffered by our town during the past five years.
to (cause something to) grow or change and become more advanced
The baby develops inside the mother for nine months.
Over time, their acquaintance developed into a lasting friendship.
This exercise is designed to develop the shoulder and back muscles.
I'm looking for a job which will enable me to develop my skills/talents.
Therefore it's an important tool that is used to develop new friendships.
to make something new such as a product
Scientists are developing new drugs all the time.
The company is spending $650 million on developing new products/technology.
With more free time we can develop new technology, learn more about ourselves and the world that surrounds us.
If you develop an illness or problem, or if it develops, you start to suffer from it.
The study showed that one in twelve women is likely to develop breast cancer.
She's developed some very strange habits lately.
They often developed the same symptoms as can be seen among mentally disturbed human beings.
to start to happen or exist
Further problems may develop if you do not deal with this now.
But it's not only financial problems which can develop as a result of more people living longer in a society.
describes a country or region of the world with an advanced level of technology, industry, etc.
a developed country/nation
To conclude I would like to say that the governments of all developed countries wouldn't have been so concerned about the so-called "problem 2000" if the computer had not been so important for modern society.
someone whose job is to create new products, especially computer products such as software
We mostly use developers based in India.
For example, we may have the top website developers in China, but quite often their skills are restricted by poor IT infrastructures.
someone who buys land or buildings to improve them and sell them for more money
All the land was bought up by developers.
In some cities these days, a lot of building developers bought spaces above some shops to either develop them as a business or develop them as flats.
describes a country or region of the world which is poor and has few industries
the developing world/countries/nations
Nowadays, both developed and developing countries spend a lot of money on computerization.
when someone or something grows or changes and becomes more advanced
healthy growth and development
The programme traced the development of popular music through the ages.
a development project in Pakistan
There are some machines which have helped in my development, and others which help to make my life easier.
the process of developing something new
the development of new drugs
Mr Berkowitz is in charge of product development.
Owing to the great speed of technological development, people need to lead a faster life.
something new that happens and changes a situation
an important development in the fuel crisis
Phone me if there are any new developments.
There have been impressive developments in technology lately.
when something starts to happen or exist
Smoking encourages the development of cancer.
The aims taken into account in the establishment of the "Health fund" are varied and cover different areas such as the education of the general public on the issues of health itself, and the threat posed by the development of cancer and Aids, etc.
a piece of equipment that is used for a particular purpose
an electronic device
Rescuers used a special device for finding people trapped in collapsed buildings.
I have much more time for many other things during the day thanks to the devices modern technology offers us.
to leave someone to do what they want to do
With both parents out at work, the kids were often left to their own devices.
The moment teenagers leave school, they are left to their own devices.
an evil being, often represented in human form but with a tail and horns
This film is about a devil who meets a priest.
someone who behaves badly
He's an absolute devil!
It must be with my younger brother, that little devil, Diana thought, so she went to his room and opened every drawer, but she could find nothing.
to design or invent something such as a system, plan, or piece of equipment
She devised a plan to make money.
We need to devise an interactive internet language programme by reinforcing our computer facility and replenishing necessary items.
to use time, energy, etc. for a particular purpose
He resigned from his job to devote more time to his family.
At that time, everyone should have devoted their life to the nation.
to use a space or area for a particular purpose
Most of the magazine was devoted to celebrity gossip.
And we have come up with the idea of building a drama theatre at our college and a new department for our library devoted to music.
to spend all your time or energy doing something that you think is important
He retired in 1814 to devote himself to social reforms.
Bosses do not like women of such marital status, because there is a threat that they will have not enough time to devote themselves to their professional work.
extremely loving or caring very much about someone or something
a devoted fan/husband/wife
Lucy is devoted to her cats.
I am devoted to reading and I can say this book is wonderful.
to say what is wrong with someone who is ill
She was diagnosed with/as having cancer last year.
I wasn't prepared at all when my parents sat me down to tell me that my mother had been diagnosed with cancer.
when a doctor says what is wrong with someone who is ill
What's the diagnosis?
Lung cancer was the diagnosis.
a simple picture showing what something looks like or explaining something
The teacher drew a diagram showing how the blood flows through the heart.
The first diagram tells us that the number of Japanese tourists travelling abroad increased dramatically from about 5 million in 1985 to about 11 million in 1990.
to make a telephone call to a particular number
Can I dial this number direct, or do I have to go through the operator?
Dial 0 for the switchboard.
So he picked up the phone and dialled the number written in the letter.
a form of a language that people speak in a particular part of a country
They're speaking a local dialect.
Mrs Haefele, the owner and cook of this inn, serves the meals personally and if you are lucky, you may understand a bit of her Swabian dialect.
(a) conversation which is written for a book, play or film
The play contained some very funny dialogue.
Act Two begins with a short dialogue between father and son.
However, she shows her courage during her first dialogue with Joss.
a formal discussion between countries or groups of people
We need to enter into a dialogue with these people.
The way I see it, history has proven that authority without dialogue leads to rebellion, and I do not see rebellion as a way to improvement, but as a symbol of failure.
an extremely hard valuable stone which is used in jewellery, and in industry for cutting hard things
a diamond ring/necklace
He had worked in the diamond mines of South Africa.
She found a gorgeous diamond ring on her finger.
a shape with four straight sides of equal length, forming two opposite angles which are wide and two which are narrow
Joe's socks had diamond patterns on them.
an illness in which your solid waste is more liquid than usual, and comes out of your body more often
She has got diarrhoea.
He is completely different from Ralph; he is fat, has asthma, diarrhoea, and suffers from acute shortsightedness.
a book in which a person writes a private record of events, thoughts, feelings, etc.
I write down my thoughts in my diary every night.
I've kept a diary since I was a little girl.
The best one is a diary: my aunt gave it to me. It like it because I can write my feelings in it.
a book containing spaces for all the days and months of the year, in which you write down your future arrangements, meetings, etc.
I'll check my diary and see when I'm free.
Don't forget to write the date of the meeting in your diary.
My diary is important for me because it has all my friend's addresses.
a small object with six equal square sides, each with between one and six spots on it, used in games
Roll the dice to see who starts the game.
The dice were rolling and my luck was in.
to cut food into small, square pieces
diced onions
There are trays of cut lettuce, leaf lettuce, cut tomato, diced tomato, all kinds of relishes, cheese with bacon spread, barbecue, or whatever you like.
to decide or control what happens
The weather will dictate where we hold the party.
Since the dawn of time people of all religions have considered that there is a higher power that dictates their destiny.
a book that contains a list of words in alphabetical order with their meanings explained or written in another language, or a similar product for use on a computer
a French-English/English-French dictionary
a bilingual/monolingual dictionary
To check how a word is spelt, look it up in a dictionary.
Andrew, I think I left my new dictionary in your house last night.
to stop living or existing
Twelve people died in the accident.
She died of/from hunger/cancer/a heart attack/her injuries.
It is a brave person who will die for their beliefs.
Our love will never die.
The pen is very important for me because my grandfather gave it to me before he died.
to be extremely eager to have or do something
I'm dying to hear your news.
I'm dying for a cup of tea.
Now I have to leave you because I'm dying for a pizza!
fuel used in the engines of some vehicles, especially buses and trucks
We need to stop for some diesel.
Secondly, if the price of petrol is increased, people will buy cars that run on diesel.
the type of food that someone usually eats
a healthy/balanced diet
The children seem to exist on a diet of burgers and chips.
You can try our fresh farm food, which is very good for your diet.
when someone eats less food, or only particular types of food, because they want to become thinner or for medical reasons
I'm going on a diet next week and hope to lose two kilos before Christmas.
The doctor put me on a low-salt diet to reduce my blood pressure.
I'm on a serious diet, and I have to exercise.
to be not like something or someone else, either physically or in another way
The twins look alike, but they differ in personality.
His views differ considerably from those of his parents.
The findings of the various studies differ greatly/widely.
People's opinions on this matter differ widely.
the way in which two people or things are not the same
What's the difference between an ape and a monkey?
I will not find the same one and of course John will notice the difference.
the amount by which one thing is different from another
a(n) age/price/temperature difference
There's a big difference in age between them.
This age difference was too big!
to improve a situation (a lot)
Exercise can make a big difference to your health.
It wouldn't make a big difference in my life, but it would be good.
to not be important or change a situation
You can ask him again if you like, but it won't make any difference - he'll still say no.
It makes no difference where you put the aerial, the TV picture's still bad.
Does it make any difference, some might ask?
to notice a difference between two things
I can't tell the difference between an American and a Canadian accent.
Not only will their critical sense atrophy but also they will not be able to tell the difference between what is right and wrong.
a disagreement or different opinion
They must try to resolve their differences peacefully.
Caroline and her husband had had an argument last week, but as he was going to be away for a few days, they had finally settled their differences.
not the same
She seems to wear something different every day.
We're reading a different book this week.
Emily is very/completely different from her sister.
That's totally different to my experience at school.
There are many different types/kinds of bacteria.
My friends gave me different gifts.
used to talk about separate things or people of the same type
I had to go to three different shops to find the book she wanted.
I have three different teachers for three different things, one for the grammar, another for the listening and finally one for my writing.
to understand or notice how two things or people are different from each other
He can't differentiate between blue and green.
The person would learn how to differentiate his needs from his wants and would value hard work.
to make someone or something different
We need to differentiate ourselves from the competition.
Consumerism is reflected through this need, leading to a non-stop purchasing of products and services which will differentiate us from the mass.
in a different way
We want to do things differently.
Are girls treated differently?
I had always pictured it quite differently.
when something is not easy to do or understand
a difficult problem/choice/task
It will be very difficult to prove that they are guilty.
Many things make it difficult for women to reach the top in business.
He finds it extremely difficult being a single parent.
This book is very important because I have a difficult exam next Friday.
not friendly or easy to deal with
The manager is difficult to deal with/a difficult person to deal with.
His wife is a very difficult person.
Please children, don't be so difficult!
I'm not a difficult person and I can cook very well.
to cause someone to be in a difficult situation
When two of your best friends argue it puts you in a very difficult position.
I know that I will put you in a difficult position with my absence but I must leave.
when something is not easy to do or understand
We finished the job, but only with great difficulty.
The difficulty of the task excited them.
She had great difficulty finding a job.
They would have difficulty in sleeping outdoors.
something that is not easy to deal with
financial difficulties
to have/experience difficulties
children with learning difficulties
As you know my family has financial difficulties and we can't afford this.
to break up and move soil using a tool, a machine or your hands
Digging (in) the garden is good exercise.
I started digging, but it was useless.
to form a hole by moving soil
The tunnel was dug with the aid of heavy machinery.
The dog was digging a hole to hide its bone in.
I was ready to dig a hole and jump into it, because when you are at that age and your best friend's father sees you kissing your boyfriend in the dark, it is just the most embarrassing thing which can happen to you.
to change food in your stomach into substances that your body can use
I need some time to digest my dinner.
Most families are also trying to eat a bit less meat, because meat is very hard to digest.
to think about new information carefully in order to understand it
You need to give me time to digest this report.
Also I found the lectures about how to write CVs very useful although if the groups were smaller, it would have made the information easier to digest.
when your body changes food in your stomach into substances that it can use
He has problems with his digestion.
Afterwards, I had some serious digestion problems, and no medical care was available.
using an electronic system that changes sounds or images into signals in the form of numbers before it stores them or sends them
digital data
a digital recording
digital TV
It has amazing digital effects.
showing information in the form of an electronic image
a digital clock/display
a digital watch
The alarm clock was flashing with the annoying digital zeros.
a type of camera that records images that you can use and store on a computer
These days almost everyone uses a digital camera.
I got lots of gifts, including a digital camera!
calm, serious, and behaving in a way that makes people respect you
a quiet, dignified woman
In the book "The remains of the day" we get to know the very dignified butler, Stevens, and his relationship with Miss Kenton.
calm and serious behaviour that makes people respect you
He behaved with great dignity and courage.
This includes a feeling of self satisfaction, happiness, honour, respect and dignity.
If it is beneath your dignity to do something, you think you are too important or from too high a class to do it.
She felt that it was beneath her dignity to wear a name badge.
He thought it was beneath his dignity to talk about his master's decisions and ideas.
a situation in which a difficult choice has to be made between two different things you could do
The President is clearly in a dilemma about/over how to tackle the crisis.
She faces the dilemma of disobeying her father or losing the man she loves.
a moral/ethical dilemma
Actually I think it's a typical female dilemma: we try to do many things by ourselves and at the same time!
not bright or clear
He could hardly see her in the dim light.
As well as such drawbacks, the lighting is too dim to browse around and some light tubes are permanently off.
when you can remember something slightly, but not very well
I have a dim memory of meeting her at a party.
I really regret having lost it for now I have only dim recollections of my past.
to become less bright, or to make something become less bright
He dimmed the lights and turned up the music.
The light was carefully dimmed by the waiter as they ordered their food: they both chose their special enchiladas.
a particular part of a situation, especially something that affects how you think or feel
Music has added a new dimension to my life.
I had never felt this way before, it was like being part of another life, another dimension!
a measurement of the length, width, or height of something
The dimensions of the photo should be no larger than 30cm by 20cm.
Also I want to take a big mirror, the dimensions are 0.70 x 1.20 m.
to become less, or to make something become less
Your pain should diminish gradually after taking these tablets.
As one student I've asked said, if we manage to keep cars out of town, air pollution will considerably diminish.
a room in which meals are eaten
We ate in the dining room.
I think I left it in the dining room.
the main meal of the day that people usually eat in the evening
We were just having (our) dinner.
We had some friends round for dinner on Saturday.
a romantic candlelit dinner
I can come to dinner tomorrow at 7 o'clock.
a very large animal that used to live millions of years ago
So why did the dinosaurs die out?
It was attacked by an enormous dinosaur and died.
to put something into a liquid for a short time
Dip the fish in the batter, then drop it into the hot oil.
She dipped her toe into the pool to see how cold it was.
I recommend little sandwiches, chips and other things to dip into sauces.
to become lower in level or amount
The number of students taking sciences has dipped sharply.
Cinema attendance in this age group dipped to 88%.
a qualification from a school, college or university, or an official document showing that someone has completed a course of study
a diploma in marketing
My best present was a diploma from the University of Cambridge.
dealing with the relationships between governments
international diplomacy
I studied International Relations and Diplomacy.
skill in dealing with people well and not upsetting them
She showed great tact and diplomacy in the meeting.
And if a dispute arose, he managed to solve it with great diplomacy and with the result that nobody in the end felt offended.
an official whose job is to represent one country in another, and who usually works in an embassy
a Spanish/British diplomat
The owner of the restaurant was a diplomat, and he invited the refugees to eat at the restaurant.
relating to diplomacy or diplomats
diplomatic relations
The price has been arranged by the Argentine and English Governments, that have now entered diplomatic relations.
good at dealing with people without upsetting them
That's a very diplomatic answer.
We may have to be diplomatic and tactful, but we also must be honest and firm.
in a way that deals well with people without upsetting them
He phrased his question very diplomatically.
Even though this issue is usually settled diplomatically, there still remains a considerable amount of criticism to be faced.
going straight from one place to another without stopping or changing direction
a direct route/line
Is there a direct train to Edinburgh?
I'm looking for a direct flight from Zurich to Botswana.
with no other person or thing involved or between
She decided to take direct control of the project.
Have you any direct experience of this kind of work?
He left as a direct result/consequence of what she said.
There is a direct link/connection between smoking and lung cancer.
I think that there are huge dangers today such as war, violence, crime, pollution, etc. that have a direct influence on our lives.
saying clearly and honestly what you think
a direct answer
He preferred to give me a hint rather than a direct answer.
to tell the actors in a film or play what to do
He wanted to give up acting and start directing (his own films).
'Jaws' was directed by Steven Spielberg.
We plan to see an action film which was directed by Tarantino.
to show or tell someone how to get to a place
Can you direct me to the manager's office please?
He directed me to a room where other guests were waiting.
to aim something at someone or something
The demonstrators' anger was directed at the police.
In these circumstances it is important, however, that alternative options are provided (e.g. efficient and affordable train services) and that economic measures (such as increased prices) are directed at those who really cause the most environmental costs.
to organize and control the way something is done
He directed the building of the new art gallery.
Obviously they will work in the commercial department, under the supervision of Lorenzo Soboli, the person who is in charge of directing that section.
the way that someone or something is moving or facing
"No, go that way," I said, pointing in the opposite direction.
He was going in the direction of the bedroom.
They drove away in opposite directions.
I walked for hours in the same direction I had walked before.
towards someone
She keeps looking in my direction.
I didn't know why she was talking to me but suddenly she walked in my direction and told me: "I need to know your name".
control or instructions
Under his direction the company has doubled its profits.
I am writing to you on behalf of the Social Club of our language school to express some complaints that we had from several students concerning our recent visit to the Science and Technology Museum which is under your direction.
the way that someone or something changes or develops
Our careers have gone in very different directions.
At school and at home young people are supposed to take responsibility for their actions and choose a direction for their life.
instructions that tell you how to get to a particular place, or how to do something
Can you give me directions to your house?
"Did you have any difficulty finding the theatre?" "No, your directions were excellent."
Just follow the directions on the label.
I didn't know where the College was, and most of the people gave me wrong directions.
with no other person or thing involved or in between
Our hotel room was directly above a building site.
The disease is directly linked to poor drainage systems.
The sun shone directly in my eyes.
The Youth Hostel was directly beside the sea.
clearly and honestly
Let me answer that question directly.
While being interviewed, try to answer the questions directly and look into the interviewer's eyes.
an important manager in an organization or company
the board of directors
She has become the director of the new information centre.
It was from my school teacher and she was saying the most horrible things about the school, the director and other teachers.
someone who tells the actors in a film or play what to do
a famous film/movie director
We want to see the latest film by our favourite director - Oliver Stone.
a book or list of names, numbers, or other facts
I looked in the telephone directory.
If you'd like to know more, look at the phone book (directory); you'll find 3 or 4 pages about how to phone, how to dial, how to get numbers etc. in English.
dust, soil or any substance that makes a surface not clean
His coat was covered with dirt.
Maybe in the future they'll find a new fabric which protects you from dirt and dangerous sunshine.
not clean
Her face was dirty and tear-stained.
Please bring two aprons or our clothes will get dirty.
an illness, injury or condition that makes it difficult for someone to do the things that other people do
a physical/learning disability
Trying to change attitudes to disability is a real struggle.
Such problems as cancer, heart attack, or mental disability are very likely to bother you in the future.
having an illness, injury or condition that makes it difficult to do the things that most people do
The accident left him severely disabled.
The library does not have disabled access.
I have done a lot of work looking after disabled people in the local area.
something which makes a situation more difficult, or makes you less likely to succeed
One disadvantage of living in the town is the lack of safe places for the children to play.
We need to consider whether the disadvantages of the plan outweigh the advantages.
After that we discussed the advantages and disadvantages of public transport.
having problems that other people do not have
Being shy puts him at a disadvantage.
There would otherwise be no option for such children who would then be at a disadvantage and possibly engage in destructive behaviour.
Disadvantaged people are poor and do not have many opportunities.
economically disadvantaged children
Therefore, there are several ways in which these people are becoming more and more disadvantaged.
to have a different opinion from someone else about something
I disagree with most of what he said.
Experts disagree about / on the causes of the disease.
Few people would disagree that something should be done to reduce the level of crime in the area.
I strongly disagree with the decision that has been taken.
We saw "Harry Potter" and the film was good but I think the book is better. Carlos disagreed with me.
when people have a different opinion about something or have an argument
They had a disagreement about/over money.
There was some disagreement with this view.
Literary critics were in total disagreement about the book.
I am writing to express my disagreement with your article "Failure of Festival", as I attended the festival last weekend.
to become impossible to see
The sun disappeared behind a cloud.
We looked for her but she had disappeared into the crowd.
They saw my mother's shadow on the stairs and disappeared.
to become impossible to find
She disappeared from her home over a month ago.
I can't find my keys anywhere - they've completely disappeared.
I noticed that my wallet had disappeared.
to no longer exist
These flowers are disappearing from our countryside.
This is a way of life that is fast disappearing.
It seems that the decorative role of clothes will have disappeared by the year 2050.
when someone or something disappears
A man was being questioned in connection with her disappearance.
After his disappearance lots of people were looking for him and in the end they tracked him down!
to make someone feel unhappy because someone or something was not as good as they had expected
I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I'm afraid I can't come after all.
We don't want to disappoint the fans.
I've always got along very well with little kids and I'm sure I won't disappoint you.
unhappy because someone or something was not as good as you hoped or expected, or because something did not happen
She was disappointed (that) they hadn't phoned.
We were deeply disappointed at/about the result.
His parents were bitterly disappointed in/with him.
He was disappointed to find they'd already gone.
I feel so disappointed.
making you feel disappointed
What a disappointing performance/result!
The response to our advertisement has been very disappointing.
I started my new English class last week, which was a really disappointing experience since the teacher was not a native speaker.
the feeling of being disappointed
Book early to avoid disappointment.
To my (great) disappointment, he decided to leave.
However, to my disappointment, the restaurant was closed because it was being redecorated.
something or someone that disappoints you
The party turned out to be a big / huge / great disappointment.
I'm afraid I've been rather a disappointment to my parents.
It was all a big disappointment!
when you think that someone or something is bad or wrong
I could sense their disapproval.
I am writing to express my disapproval of the deplorable service experienced in your museum.
to feel that something or someone is bad or wrong
The survey showed that 32% of respondents approve, 54% disapprove and the rest are undecided.
I strongly disapprove of under-age drinking.
Since the system has more disadvantages than advantages, I disapprove of the "open 24 hours a day, seven days a week" system.
something that causes great harm or damage
An inquiry was ordered into the recent rail disaster.
This is one of the worst natural disasters ever to hit the area.
Everything was going smoothly until suddenly disaster struck.
Secondly, we have to save our planet from disaster.
something that is a failure or has a negative result
His idea was a total disaster.
Inviting James and Ivan to dinner on the same evening was a recipe for disaster - they always argue with each other.
For very shy people who have trouble communicating even in everyday situations it would be a disaster to become famous, watched by curious fans and recognised while walking in the streets.
extremely bad
disastrous consequences
a disastrous week
Let's hope that people involved - politicians and trade union leaders - will be able to sort things out soon in order to put an end to these disastrous conditions.
a CD
Both songs are on their latest disc.
Then after the movie, we went to a CD shop and I bought the new Foo Fighters' disc.
a flat, round shape or object
The dog had a small, metal disc attached to its collar.
a piece of cartilage between the bones in your back
a slipped disc
As a matter of fact, living off sports is rather precarious, as you cannot predict when, due to a torn ligament or a slipped disc, you will be doomed to sink into oblivion.
when people's behaviour is controlled using rules and punishments
parental/military/school discipline
There should be better discipline in schools.
I don't know if that is because of their age, but whatever it is, I think teachers should change the methods of discipline they use.
when you can control your own behaviour carefully
I don't have enough discipline to save money.
He's an example to be followed not only as an athlete, but also as a person who is a symbol of discipline, maturity, humility.
a particular subject of study
the scientific disciplines
Amongst the newly employed, people with a background in education score the highest with 79%, almost 20% more than the other two disciplines.
someone who plays music on the radio or at live events
a radio 2 disc jockey
I found out that there would be a special event with disc jockeys like DJ Quicksilver.
to give new or secret information to someone
He refused to disclose details of the report.
Had not the memory of my friend Sherlock Holmes been spoilt by so many people since his death, in 1917, I would never have disclosed the following events.
a place or event where people dance to pop music
disco lights
I think Saturday will be the best for me and then we can go to a disco.
a physically uncomfortable situation
They travelled in great discomfort.
First of all, the coach was not suitable for adults, as we had very little leg room and the seat belts were broken, which meant discomfort and insecurity.
slight pain
You may feel some discomfort for a few days.
As we live longer, the natural weakening of our bodies causes us increasing discomfort and pain, restricting our abilities.
when you feel slightly embarrassed or anxious
I could see that the talk of divorce was causing her some discomfort.
A feeling of discomfort is emerging in society, where the homeless feel upset and the rich feel guilty for spending their money on luxurious things.
unhappiness about a situation
There is growing discontent with this government.
You must know that this is a delicate moment for the Italian economy, because of the recession and unemployment problems, and the discontent with government policy has pushed many workers to go on strike.
a reduction in price
They usually give you a discount if you buy multiple copies.
They offer a 10 percent discount on rail travel for students.
Thanks to this club, we have a 10% discount at all shops in the downtown area during December.
to make someone less confident or enthusiastic about something
The thought of how much work she had to do discouraged her.
It should include the prices of the tickets. If not, it will discourage people.
to try to persuade someone not to do something
Her parents tried to discourage her from seeing him.
Yet there are also disadvantages which might discourage you from buying a mobile phone.
to try to prevent something from happening
a campaign to discourage smoking
The truth their argument holds is overshadowed by the deteriorating conditions of living in the cities where frequent police patrols or stricter laws don't seem to discourage thefts.
to find out something or to find a place or an object, especially for the first time
Who discovered America?
Scientists have discovered how to predict an earthquake.
We searched all morning for the missing papers and finally discovered them in a drawer.
She discovered (that) her husband was having an affair.
I have discovered that horses are wonderful animals.
when someone discovers something
the discovery of electricity
Leonardo made many scientific discoveries.
a journey/voyage of discovery
The discovery of a body in the woods started a murder enquiry.
How will this affect our lifestyles and homes in the future if scientists go on making new discoveries?
something or someone that is discovered
I've made a great discovery!
My second discovery is a more serious one. After thirty years since its premiere, "Macbeth" sees its first release on video.
careful not to cause embarrassment or attract too much attention
Can I trust you to be discreet?
Though he seems to keep an eye on us, he is very discreet and never impinges on our privacy.
when someone is careful not to cause embarrassment or attract too much attention, especially by keeping something secret
You can rely on my discretion.
Don't you realise that Stevens is the personification of dignity and duty and discretion?
to treat someone unfairly because of their sex, race, religion, etc.
The company was accused of discriminating against people on the basis of age.
Firstly, the disadvantage of this policy is that it discriminates against the poor.
to notice a difference between two things
Police dogs are very good at discriminating between different smells.
Needless to say, it is essential to discriminate between the freedom of choice the child is given and lack of control on the part of the youngster's parents; the latter, for obvious reasons, should be penalised and avoided at all costs.
when someone is treated unfairly because of their sex, race, religion, etc.
racial/sex/sexual discrimination
discrimination against older workers
But we must not forget that there is still sexual discrimination when women apply for jobs higher up in a hierarchy.
to talk about something with someone and tell each other your ideas or opinions
Have you discussed this matter with anyone else?
When we meet, we usually watch a science fiction film, then we discuss it.
when people talk about something and tell each other their ideas or opinions
They were having a discussion about football.
I can say nothing - the matter is still under discussion.
Management are holding/having discussions with the union about possible redundancies.
Jane told us something about the Civil War and after that we had a discussion about the rights of black people in those days.
(an) illness caused by infection or by a failure of health rather than by an accident
heart disease
a common/rare disease
They reported a sudden outbreak of the disease in the south of the country.
The first symptom of the disease is a very high temperature.
Starvation and disease have killed thousands of refugees.
I was worried about her incurable disease.
when someone does something very bad that makes people stop respecting them or their family, team, etc.
They were sent home in disgrace.
He brought disgrace on the whole team.
When we came back, it felt like we were sinking into a miserable life, full of disgrace.
to be very bad
It's a disgrace that money is being wasted like this.
The park is really a disgrace.
to be so bad or unacceptable that you make people stop respecting a particular group, activity, etc.
You are a disgrace to your profession.
It's a disgrace to mankind!
clothes and other things that you wear to change the way you look so that people cannot recognize you
She usually goes out in disguise to avoid being bothered by the public.
There will be a big parade in the first week of the month with people in disguise.
to give a new appearance to a person or thing, especially in order to hide its true form
He disguised himself by shaving his head and wearing a false beard.
Minor skin imperfections can usually be disguised with make-up.
We tried to disguise the fact that it was just a school hall by putting up coloured lights and balloons.
This writer that we are going to welcome is a brilliant woman, because she had the courage to disguise herself as an immigrant to see and to feel how those poor and miserable Turkish immigrants live in Germany.
to hide something such as a feeling or opinion
She couldn't disguise her disappointment.
She started as a secretary, carefully disguising her talent and energy, just to land the job.
a very strong feeling of dislike or disapproval
She walked out in disgust.
But even real game lovers regularly express their disgust about the lack of interest with which many heavily overpaid players hang around on the field during a match.
feeling extreme dislike or disapproval of something
I'm totally disgusted with your behaviour.
As you realise, I am thoroughly disgusted with the tour which you provided.
extremely unpleasant or unacceptable
It's disgusting that there are no schools or hospitals for these people.
Passengers were kept for hours in a disgusting waiting room.
Personally I don't like the special food that they do sometimes, because it's disgusting.
a curved container for eating and serving food from
an oven-proof dish
You should be able to serve it in dishes or glasses.
food prepared in a particular way as part of a meal
a chicken/vegetarian dish
I like rice and sweet dishes.
dirty plates, bowls and other objects that have been used for cooking or eating food
Who's going to wash the dishes?
Because after dinner I washed the dishes, so I put my ring on the table.
not honest and likely to lie or do something illegal
a dishonest lawyer
a dishonest way of making money
He's been dishonest in his dealings with us/about his past.
Both of them are dishonest men: Joss organizes the smuggling, and Jem is a horse-thief.
in a dishonest way
She acted dishonestly.
The prize is valueless if achieved dishonestly.
when someone is not honest
Her dishonesty landed her in prison.
He is so open in his dishonesty that Mary can't be angry with him.
a machine that washes dirty plates, cups, forks, etc.
I was just loading the dishwasher.
Finally, modern technology has changed my way of spending the free time that is provided by household appliances such as the dishwasher and the washing machine.
feeling disappointed because something is not as good as you thought it was
She says she's disillusioned with the music business.
They were disappointed and disillusioned.
a piece of computer equipment that records and stores information electronically
the hard disk
How much disk space is there?
I bought a brand new, state of the art computer which is equipped with a 300 Mhz PENTIUM Processor, a 300 GB hard disk, a 17" monitor and so on.
to not like someone or something
Why do you dislike her so much?
I dislike walking and I hate the countryside.
I generally prefer reading newspapers, but I don't dislike books.
things that you do and do not like
What are your top five likes and dislikes?
The teacher asked about our families, friends, and likes and dislikes and then the lesson finished.
when you do not like someone or something
a dislike of cold weather
The main reason for my dislike is that it's so unnatural.
not loyal or not supporting someone who you should support
I don't want to be disloyal to my friend.
These stories always have a happy ending: those who are faithful and reliable are rewarded but those who cause pain or are disloyal are punished.
a feeling of unhappiness and disappointment
To our dismay, it started raining.
Much to our dismay, we could not find either his mother or his father.
to refuse to consider an idea or opinion
The committee dismissed the idea as rubbish.
That is why I would dismiss this facility: there is already a small video room in our school which is hardly ever used.
to officially make someone leave their job
Anyone who breaks company rules will be dismissed.
What's more, every day hundreds of workmen are dismissed and thereby the ratio of unemployment still increases.
when someone refuses to consider an idea or opinion
I was angered by his dismissal of my worries.
Their dismissal of our proposal was essentially because of our lack of worldwide investments; as everybody knows, we fundamentally concentrate our assets inside the European Union boundaries.
when an employer officially makes someone leave their job
a letter of dismissal
She accused her employers of unfair dismissal.
Another episode of this sort is when Miss K. threatens to leave Darlington Hall because of the dismissal of the two Jewish maids.
an illness or medical condition
a blood disorder
We should react at an early stage of an eating disorder by watching ourselves, consulting a doctor and going to the fitness centre.
uncontrolled, bad behaviour, especially by large groups of people
crime and disorder
public/civil disorder
Although the transport facilities are good, the neighbourhood has become increasingly dangerous, with numerous incidents of attacks and public disorder.
when things are untidy or confused and not organized
His financial affairs are in complete disorder.
My home might, to an outsider, give the feeling of complete disorder, not to say craziness, but I can assure you that it was not true at all.
not planned or organized well
The whole conference was totally disorganized - nobody knew what they were supposed to be doing.
Even though it was rather disorganized, most of the audience seemed to be pleased with it.
not good at planning or organizing things
He's impossible to work for - he's so disorganized.
Apart from that, I am a disaster working in offices and I am very disorganised.
to take the place of someone or something
Many of these workers will be displaced by modern technology.
Mexico was traditionally the land of the tortilla and the beans, but every day, this seems to be changing ever more rapidly, displaced by the heavy advertising campaigns and Americanized habits.
the act of displacing something
Widespread flooding has led to the displacement of thousands of people.
Apart from the fact that population growth is also playing its role, the reason for the enormously increased size of cities is the displacement of people from rural areas to the cities.
a collection of objects or pictures arranged for people to look at
a display of children's paintings
I decided to visit a museum which has a special display on Friday.
If something is on display, it is there for people to look at.
Many old aircraft are on display at the museum at the moment.
There were some new musical instruments on display.
when something is shown electronically such as on a computer screen
The display problems might be due to a shortage of disk space.
The phone has many facilities like games and color display.
a performance or show for people to watch
a firework display
One of the high points of our exciting and well organised event was the fireworks display.
when someone behaves in a way that shows they have a particular feeling or attitude
The politicians shook hands in a display of unity for the media.
That is the reason why Charles is annoyed by her occasional urgent displays of affection.
to arrange something somewhere so that people can see it
Family photographs were displayed on the wall.
The problem with some museums is that the way in which the pieces of art are displayed is not right.
to show something electronically such as on a computer screen
The text can be displayed and edited on screen.
The timetable is hidden somewhere in a submenu which, I think, should be displayed on the main page.
to show how you feel by your expression or behaviour
He never displayed any interest in girls.
The above feeling demonstrates about Okonkwo his constant anxiety to demonstrate - he and his son - constant manliness and to not display any feeling of love, gentleness and support even to his own children.
intended to be used only once and then thrown away
a disposable camera/razor
One drawback is the usage of disposable knives, forks and plates, which shouldn't be used nowadays.
the amount of money that you have available to spend after tax, rent and other basic things that you must pay
Most of our customers have a large disposable income.
It's true that people have more disposable income than ever, but surprisingly, people also have more debts.
when you get rid of something, especially by throwing it away
waste disposal
the disposal of hazardous substances
Nowadays waste disposal and environmental protection has become one of the most important questions of our life in a world with environmental catastrophes.
available for you to use at any time
We will have a car at our disposal for the whole trip.
But on Wednesday morning I'm at your disposal.
to get rid of something, especially by throwing it away
I need to dispose of these old clothes.
Naturally there are abuses and in large cities, some people continue to dispose of their rubbish in the street.
to be willing or likely to do something
I tried to tell her but she didn't seem disposed to listen.
In my opinion, it is very important to make young children respect rules strictly, but, on the other hand, I would always be disposed to explain the rules of society to my children as they grow older.
the type of character someone has
a cheerful/nervous disposition
She is a really special girl with personal values and a really sweet disposition.
a disagreement, especially one that lasts a long time
A man stabbed his neighbour in a dispute over noise.
The unions are in dispute with management over pay.
In former times these territorial and religious disputes resulted in a decrease in population.
certain or certainly
Her skill is beyond dispute.
He is beyond dispute the finest actor in Hollywood today.
It is beyond dispute that we owe a lot to the wise scientists who discovered 'electro-magnetism'.
to disagree with something someone says
I'm not disputing that the drug has benefits.
Nobody disputes nowadays the importance of learning another language and the advantages that this knowledge provides in adult life.
to stop someone from being in a competition or doing some other activity because they have done something wrong
She was disqualified from the race after a drugs test.
Also a member who is not paying the contributions to the SOE club will be disqualified from it.
when someone does not show any respect or behave politely towards someone or something
a disrespect for authority
This report is not only bad publicity for the charity organisation, it also shows a great deal of disrespect towards the people working with these events.
being rude and not showing any respect
Don't be disrespectful to your mother.
She really missed him despite his disrespectful behaviour.
to interrupt something and stop it continuing as it should
A heavy fall of snow had disrupted the city's transport system.
The meeting was disrupted by a group of protesters who shouted and threw fruit at the speaker.
On the other hand the beep on your mobile phone sometimes disrupts the most romantic moment or the best scene in the cinema.
when something is stopped from happening as it should
a disruption of services
Please also advise if there are evening or weekend courses, so I can attend them without any disruption to my main work.
causing problems that interrupt something and stop it continuing as it should
disruptive behaviour
Also, frequent conflicts in their family environment or complacency and indifference towards their parents are severe enough reasons, which lead them to drug or alcohol abuse and disruptive or even rebellious behaviour.
when someone is dissatisfied
At the moment she's experiencing a lot of dissatisfaction with her job.
I expect a full refund plus compensation for my dissatisfaction and discomfort which I suffered.
not pleased or happy with something
If you're dissatisfied with the service, why don't you complain to the hotel manager?
However, I must say that museums are really useful, to understand the history of the world, and that's why people keep going there even though they're sometimes dissatisfied.
a very long piece of writing done as part of a course of study
She's writing a dissertation on American poetry.
I have completed my dissertation work on antifungal studies.
to end an organization or official arrangement
They decided to dissolve the partnership.
Now, the Parliament is dissolved and we are waiting for new elections.
If a solid dissolves, it becomes part of a liquid, and if you dissolve it, you make it become part of a liquid.
Dissolve two teaspoons of yeast in warm water.
the amount of space between two places
What's the distance between Madrid and Barcelona/from Madrid to Barcelona?
He travels quite a distance to work every day.
Does she live walking distance of her parents?
There are also caves to explore a short distance away.
somewhere that is far away, but close enough for you to see or hear the things that are there
I could see Mary in the distance.
From a distance, it sounded like a bell ringing.
Far in the distance they spotted another ship.
far away
a distant country
She could hear the distant sound of fireworks exploding.
A distant rumbling could be heard through the thick layers of rock that she was under.
not friendly
She seemed cold and distant.
I like the idea of joining a lively team; being a gregarious person I need a change from the cold and distant treatment which is usual in the big department stores.
A distant relative is not very closely related to you.
a distant cousin
Sometimes it's difficult to welcome a distant cousin who we've never heard of before, even though our mother remembers him perfectly.
different and separate
This word has three distinct meanings.
However, two distinct groups of employees, namely the molecular dynamics simulation group and the Drawing Section, are indeed hampered in their daily work due to old equipment.
clear and certain
There's been a distinct improvement in your work.
So, getting married, either in your thirties or when younger, has distinct advantages.
easy to hear, see, or smell
The voices gradually became louder and more distinct.
On these occasions it is quite possible to distinguish a distinct smell of kerosene.
a difference between two similar things
the distinction between spoken and written language
There's a clear distinction between the dialects spoken in the two regions.
This company makes no distinction between the sexes.
You must be able to make a distinction between wild and ferocious species and small animals.
a quality or fact that makes someone or something special or different
wines of distinction
He has the distinction of being the youngest player in the World Cup finals.
In the car park of one of those fiercely emerging companies, cars are not only a way of moving around, but a sign of distinction.
Something that is distinctive is easy to recognize because it is different from other things.
a distinctive style of writing
But their most distinctive feature is their carefree manner of walking, taking their time and actually looking at the buildings, the people, the landscapes.
to recognize the differences between two people, ideas or things
He's colour-blind and can't distinguish (the difference) between red and green easily.
I sometimes have difficulty distinguishing Spanish from Portuguese.
It's important to distinguish between business and pleasure.
It's not the beauty so much as the range of his voice that distinguishes him from other tenors.
This is the scene where in a card game between pig Napoleon and human Pilkington, the other animals, who secretly watch the game through the window, find it impossible to distinguish between pigs and humans.
to make one person or thing seem different from another
His great skill distinguishes him from the rest of the team.
A person distinguishes himself from others by different tastes, manners, characters or behaviour.
to be able to see, hear or understand something
I couldn't distinguish anything in the darkness.
I could distinguish nothing in the darkness and was scared to death.
famous, praised, or admired
a distinguished writer
One of HuXin Ting's most distinguished visitors in recent times was Queen Elizabeth II, whose tour of Shanghai included a stop here and a cup of tea.
to change information so that it is not true or realistic
Newspapers distorted the truth about their marriage.
The report distorted this figure to "less than 60%".
to make someone stop giving their attention to something
Don't distract her from her studies.
He tried to distract from his own illegal activities.
Television is not always useful because it distracts our mind from other things.
something that makes you stop giving your attention to something else
The phone calls were a constant distraction.
Some of them have really unacceptable behaviour and cause distractions even in class.
an activity you can do for fun or entertainment
He is studying too much and needs some distractions.
Swiss people are workaholics; they sacrifice their free time to earn money, although occasionally they need some kind of distraction.
the feeling of being extremely upset or worried
The newspaper reports caused her a great deal of distress.
I am constantly praised for the quality of my work and I get personal satisfaction helping people in emotional distress.
when someone or something is in danger and needs help
a ship in distress
Let's start this process by helping and caring for the people in distress and providing them with what we can.
extremely upset or worried
They were very distressed to learn of her death.
I was distressed to discover that your advertisement was inaccurate.
making you feel extremely worried or upset
distressing news
a distressing experience
If you confront a distressing situation try to compensate for it with a relaxing activity.
to give something out to several people
The books will be distributed free to local schools.
Several people were arrested for distributing racist leaflets to the spectators.
I also had to distribute the flyers at the concert.
to supply goods to shops and companies
The company manufactures and distributes computer equipment worldwide.
Our company imports all the merchandise from the Far East and then distributes those products in high quantities to different customers.
when something is supplied or given out to people or places
the sale and distribution of electrical goods
During the economic slowdown throughout the 1980s, the use of rail roads for goods transport dropped significantly (about 50%) while terrestrial and water transport provided cheaper and more effective means of distribution.
the way something is divided and shared in a group or area
the distribution of wealth
Poverty, domestic problems and an uneven distribution of wealth in the community make such children bitter and instead of working hard, they become rebellious and try to look for short cuts to gain money and comfort.
a part of a city or country, either an official area or one that is known for having a particular feature or characteristic
South Cambridgeshire District Council
the financial/business district
the Lake District/the Peak District
I recommend you go from one district to another by public transport.
to interrupt what someone is doing by making noise or annoying them
Please don't disturb Georgina - she's trying to do her homework.
I'm sorry to disturb you so late, but my car's broken down and I was wondering if I could use your phone.
If we go outdoors we won't disturb my parents.
to make someone feel anxious or upset
Some scenes are violent and may disturb younger viewers.
Listening to the radio yesterday whilst cleaning, I happened to hear a few statements made by people my age concerning their attitude to work. What disturbed me, and made me stop cleaning all together, was when one of them said, quote: "I want to earn lots of money - that's all I care about," end quote.
something that interrupts what you are doing, especially something loud or annoying
I don't want any disturbances this morning.
On the other hand, I think I represent each and every student when I apologise for the disturbance of the residents who live near the College.
when people fight or shout
A man was shot during a disturbance in King Street.
Social disturbances are also a result of unemployment.
not thinking or behaving normally because of mental or emotional problems
He is a very disturbed child.
James tore at his neatly trimmed hair, revealing how disturbed he was.
unpleasant in a way that makes people feel anxious or upset
disturbing images
Still, I find Edmund's character disturbing and I do not believe that his background alone could have created such an evil human being.
If you dive into water, you enter it head-first with your arms held out above your head.
They ran to the pool, dived in, and swam to the other side.
Look at those children diving for oysters over there!
Mark dived off the bridge into the river.
I dived from high rocks into the water.
to swim under water, usually with breathing equipment
I like to go somewhere on holiday where I can dive.
Now, she dives regularly and spends all her holidays at a place where there is a Diving Centre.
when you enter water head-first with your arms held out above your head
He entered the pool with a neat dive.
when you spend some time swimming under water
The centre also offers night dives, which are highly recommended.
It will start with a medical test, a few hours of theory, some training dives in a swimming pool and, at last, two dives on the reef.
someone who swims under water, usually with breathing equipment
a deep-sea diver
I've got the qualification of "open water diver''.
varied or different
Students from countries as diverse as Colombia and Lithuania use Cambridge textbooks.
New York is a very culturally/ethnically diverse city.
I am a sociable person who has been exposed to diverse social circumstances.
when many different types of things or people are included in something
Does television adequately reflect the ethnic and cultural diversity of the country?
There is a wide diversity of opinion on the issue.
On the other hand, the fact that all the people buy the same goods and live in similar ways may threaten the cultural diversity.
to take someone's attention away from something
A movement outside the window diverted my attention.
For example, when I feel sad or depressed, shopping can help me temporarily forget those negative feelings by diverting my attention to something which I really love doing.
to send someone or something somewhere different from where they were expecting to go
The plane was diverted to Stansted because of engine trouble.
The police were diverting traffic away from the town.
There are certainly easy solutions to this problem, e.g., the night traffic could be diverted to the airport in Vennes as there are no houses nearby.
to separate into parts or groups or to make people or things do this
At the end of the lecture, I'd like all the students to divide into small discussion groups.
After World War Two, Germany was divided into two separate countries.
The class was divided into two groups.
to separate a place into two areas
There's a narrow alley which divides our house from the one next door.
The city is divided into two parts by the River Danube: Buda and Pest.
to separate something into parts and give a part to each person in a group
The prize money will be divided equally among the winners.
As women start to work outside the home more, the housework has to be divided among all the family members.
to calculate how many times a number can go into another number
12 divided by 6 equals 2.
to cause people to disagree about something
Council members were divided over plans to build a new stadium.
It is certainly clear to all that cars cannot continue to enter the city as they are currently doing, but this is a polemic subject and citizens are bound to be divided.
a difference or separation
Because of debt repayments, the divide between rich and poor countries is continuing to grow.
Increasing petrol prices may make the divide between the rich and poor more obvious.
If a group, organization or country is divided, there are disagreements among the people in it.
Board members are divided over the plans for the new stadium.
Opinions are divided.
the activity of swimming under water, usually with breathing equipment
I want to go diving in Malta.
We can go fishing, diving or windsurfing, it depends on how you would like to spend your time.
when something is separated into parts or groups, or the way that it is separated
the equal division of labour between workers
Suddenly all the atomic missiles of the defensive system rose up in the sky, and so did the Russian ones, not turned off after the division of the ex-USSR.
one of the groups in a business or organization
the sales division
Being a lucky guy, I had the chance to work at the Disneyland Hotel, which is a division of the famous Walt Disney Company.
one of the groups of football teams in a league
the Second Division
I've been playing football for an Italian second division team, by the way.
when two people officially stop being married
The last I heard they were getting a divorce.
Divorce is on the increase.
Ellie wants a divorce.
What are the chances of a marriage ending in divorce?
After her divorce, she had two boyfriends.
to end a marriage by an official or legal process
She's divorcing her husband.
I asked Vina, "If I divorce my wife, will you marry me?"
married in the past but not now married
She's divorced.
They got divorced after only six months of marriage.
My best friend Petra is getting divorced.
feeling as if everything is turning round, so that you feel ill or as if you might fall
Going without sleep for a long time makes me feel dizzy and light-headed.
I felt quite dizzy with excitement as I went up to collect the award.
She felt a little bit dizzy.
someone who plays music on the radio or at live events
He's a DJ on Radio 1.
I found out that there would be a special event with disc jockeys like DJ Quicksilver.
ABBREVIATION FOR deoxyribonucleic acid; a chemical in the cells of living things which contains genetic information
DNA evidence led to her arrest.
In the end the DNA test showed that they weren't blood related and therefore they could get married and have children without having the whole neighbourhood gossiping about them.
used with another verb to form questions and negative phrases
Do you speak English?
Where do you work?
When does your train leave?
Why did you say that?
I don't know.
He doesn't eat meat.
I didn't see her there.
What did you do at the party?
used in a phrase at the end of a sentence to make the sentence a question
You like her, don't you?
Sarah lives near here, doesn't she?
You didn't ask him, did you?
It doesn't hurt, does it?
You love watching tv, don't you?!
something you say when politely asking if you can do something, or when asking someone else to do something
Do you mind if I put the television on?
Do you mind if I bring a friend?
to be unsuccessful/successful
Sam did very well in her exams.
I had done badly in my last exam and my teacher said she would talk to my mother.
used to avoid repeating a verb that has just been used
She runs much faster than he does.
Maria looks much healthier than she did.
"I hate that song!" "So do I."
"I don't like the heat." "Nor/Neither do I."
"May I join you?" "Please do!"
I like Brad Pitt a lot, and so does she.
used to give extra force to the main verb
Do let me know if you need anything.
He does like you - he's just shy.
I really do love to be a volunteer, to help people as much as I can.
to perform an action
What shall we do?
What are you doing tonight?
Have you done your homework?
We did a lot of talking.
I've got nothing to do.
I have nothing to do.
to study a subject
Diana did history at university.
I'm doing English at the college.
to perform a job in the house
I do the cooking but Joe does most of the cleaning.
She likes to do the cooking.
used to ask what someone's job is
"What do you do (for a living)?" "I'm a doctor."
What does Antonio do - does he teach?
I don't know what his wife does.
What does Angie do?
to make or produce something
I've done 20 copies of the hand-out.
They do really good cakes in the cafe.
On any special day like Devali they do some special sweet food.
used for talking or asking about someone and whether they are healthy, happy or succeeding
Hi, how are you doing?
"How is Freya doing?" "She's doing really well, thanks."
I'm doing fine.
to perform a sports activity
She does yoga in her spare time.
At the club, I can swim, do karate or yoga, play soccer, tennis, squash and table-tennis.
to make your hair/make-up, etc. look nice
It takes him half an hour to do his hair in the morning.
I was the assistant of the person responsible for the clothes and make-up of the pop-group, and I was asked to do their make-up on my own.
to make the greatest effort possible
I did my best to persuade him.
I'll do my best to cover the work.
to have a good effect on someone
A break from this would do us all good.
I must admit that my stay in your nice home did me good.
to cause damage/harm, etc.
The fire did a lot of structural damage to the building.
I promise not to do any damage!
to be related to something
She lacks confidence and I think that has to do with her childhood.
I think that is nothing to do with my accident.
will be satisfactory
You don't have to pay now, next week will do.
You need a telephone card. They can cost from 100zT to 1000zT. One of 100zT will do.
to try as hard as you can to do something
We did our utmost to finish the project on time.
In addition, we live in a materialistic society where we all do our utmost in order to make ends meet, but we are never satisfied.
If something does the job, it is suitable for a particular purpose.
Here, this knife should do the job.
Allow them to bring home friends and therefore develop social skills. In my opinion, that should do the job.
to show the best or real qualities of something or someone
This postcard doesn't do justice to the wonderful scenery.
No words can do justice to the indignation that I feel.
to accept something that is less good than you would like
If we can't get a bigger room we'll have to make do with this.
Very calmly, he said "I am not going to put up with this. You might say that I am being too emotional, overreacting, whatever. But I will not come back until my piano has been returned. And let me make very clear that I will not make do with another instrument."
If something does the trick, it solves a problem or has the result you want.
If I've got a headache, a couple of aspirins usually do the trick.
Using aromatherapy oil and scented candles always did the trick when she wanted to relax.
the place where ships stop and goods are taken off or put on
The ship is in dock.
I would like to take them with me to a very typical restaurant near the docks: Mummie's House 25 Harbour Street 2 Tel. 070 321 26 33.
a person whose job is to treat people who are ill or hurt
You should see a doctor about that cough.
Good morning, Doctor Smith/Doctor.
I'm going to start on Saturday, because on Friday I have to go to the doctor with my grandmother.
a piece of paper with official information on it
official/confidential/legal documents
My credit cards and official documents are inside.
a piece of text produced electronically on a computer
I'll send you the document by email.
That document was a "virus" and erased all my documents on my computer.
a film, television or radio programme that gives facts and information about a subject
The documentary took a fresh look at the life of Darwin.
They showed a documentary on animal communication.
It's supposed to be a documentary about a man who lives with his wife and dogs in The Rockies, in Canada.
an animal with fur, four legs and a tail, especially kept by people as a pet or to hunt or guard buildings
my pet dog
wild dogs
dog food
We could hear dogs barking in the distance.
She likes going to the park in her free time for a walk with her dog.
to give something, especially money, to several people or in large amounts
I've had to dole out nearly $500 this month.
But still, doling out money does not make the people that receive it happy.
a child's toy that looks like a small person or baby
Lara loves playing with her dolls.
I've got a cute doll.
the unit of money used in the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and some other countries
Can I borrow ten dollars?
The suitcase was full of dollar bills.
Eugene gave me twenty dollars.
an intelligent animal that lives in the sea, breathes air and looks like a large, smooth, grey fish
They swam with dolphins on holiday.
I saw a dolphin jumping in the air.
a particular area, activity, or subject that someone controls or deals with
The garden is his domain.
This information should be in the public domain.
In the late 70s, a profitable domain to work in was the petrol and oil business and, as large reserves of that natural resource were located in Alaska, the Americans and certain other companies moved their "base-camp" over there.
belonging or relating to the home, house or family
domestic chores/duties/arrangements
All domestic appliances such as showers, kettles, lights, TV and curtains may be voice activated.
relating to a person's own country
domestic airlines/flights
Domestic opinion had turned against the war.
We should advertise all the good points of our city in the domestic and foreign mass-media.
power, influence, and control
the company's dominance in the software industry
In conclusion, the choice of favourite leisure activities has undergone significant changes for 17 to 25 year olds in Europe over a 20 year period, with the new dominance of an emerging computer games-playing generation at the expense of outdoor activities.
main or most important
Unemployment will be a dominant issue at the next election.
Looking back on the ongoing discussion about women's role in modern German society, there is one dominant impression: women have to enlarge, improve, intensify, etc.... they have to enlarge their horizon, to improve their professional skills, to intensify their involvement in politics and so on ....
strongest and wanting to take control
a dominant older brother
He was a very dominant boy and I was afraid of him.
to have control over a place or a person
He refuses to let others speak and dominates every meeting.
They work as a group - no one person is allowed to dominate.
For instance, in banks, schools, hospitals, and airports we are absolutely dominated by computers, aren't we?
to be the largest, most important, or most noticeable part of something
The subject of pay dominated their discussions.
The cathedral dominates the skyline.
The religious values that dominated every aspect of life are slowly being replaced by new ones and the outcome of this metamorphosis has yet to be examined.
great power and control over someone or something else
world domination
A more serious argument is that the domination of huge multinationals suppresses local creativity and forces the local traditions to fade away.
to give money or goods to help a person or organization
An anonymous businesswoman donated one million dollars to the charity.
Please donate generously.
You don't have to pay for it but you can donate some money if you wish.
to allow some of your blood or part of your body to be used for medical purposes
He donated a kidney to his sister.
For example, he once saved my life, putting his in danger by donating a large quantity of blood.
when money or goods are given to help a person or organization
donations of food and money
I'd like to make a small donation in my mother's name.
First of all, I would like to say that I and my friends are very happy because of Mr Maitland's donation.
an animal like a small horse with long ears
The donkey struggled with its heavy burden.
You can use animals like donkeys for transportation.
someone who gives some of their blood or part of their body to be used for medical purposes
She is a regular blood donor.
In this group we can include responsible authorities, sympathetic doctors, organ donors, good teachers and many other unknown people who devote their lives to a generous cause.
someone who gives money or goods to a person or organization that needs help
Ten thousand dollars was given by an anonymous donor.
Private donors raised some funds to prevent the hospital from closure.
death, destruction, and other unpleasant events that cannot be avoided
a horrible sense of doom
Men were not only humans but warriors who represented the army of immortals whose fate was to defend the Earth from the evil spirits of doom.
unhappiness and feeling no hope for the future
Life's not all doom and gloom, you know.
To sum up, experts can stop their doom and gloom statements about our uncertain future and the possible global crisis.
a flat object, often fixed at one edge, that is used to close the entrance of something such as a room or building, or the entrance itself
the front door
the back door
a car door
a sliding door
The door to his bedroom was locked.
We could hear someone knocking at/on the door.
Could you open/close/shut the door, please?
She asked me to answer the door.
There is a garden outside the back door but it isn't big.
privately and not in public
Most of the deals were done behind closed doors.
Decisions which affect the whole world are made behind closed doors and are top secret.
an entrance to a building or room through a door
She waited in the doorway while I ran back inside.
They sleep in doorways and beg in the street.
a measured amount of something such as medicine
a high/low dose
a dose of penicillin
It is important to me because I have asthma and cannot miss even one dose of it.
an amount of something, often something unpleasant
a dose of bad news
You ought to plan your work and mainly learn in the morning when your brain is ready to accept a great dose of knowledge.
the spoken form of a full stop in an Internet or email address, or some computer files
"What's the web address?" "www dot cambridge dot org".
a very small round mark
The full stop at the end of this sentence is a dot.
Her skirt was blue with white dots.
On the map we have marked a black dot on the place where you will find the hotel.
at that exact time
We have to leave at 7.30 on the dot.
He gave him an address and told him to be there at six on the dot.
twice the size, amount, price, etc., or consisting of two similar things together
I'd like to book a double room.
I ordered a double espresso.
Go through the double doors and turn left.
The word 'cool' has a double 'o' in the middle.
I'm going to buy a double bed, that is why I need to sell the single one.
twice as much or as many
Our new house is double the size of the old one.
It'll cost you double that now.
There has been an increase of 15% in the number of old people that live alone, and in the case of living in a care home, the percentage is double (50%) that of 1976.
to become twice the original size or amount, or to make something do this
The government aims to double the number of students in higher education within 25 years.
Company profits have doubled since the introduction of new technology.
Taxes have doubled, and the price for petrol shows an increase of more than 50% within the last 3 months.
when you are not certain about something, or do not trust someone or something
I'm having doubts about his ability to do the job.
If there's any doubt about the rocket's engines, we ought to cancel the launch.
If you have any doubt, send me an e-mail.
to be certain
I have no doubt (that) I made the right decision.
I never had any doubt (that) you would win.
Maria went with me, and I have no doubt she loved the lake like I did.
it is certain
There is no doubt (that) he's a good player.
However, there is no doubt that it is a nice one.
to not be certain
The future of the project is in doubt.
If you don't know the difference, or if you are in doubt, keep on reading.
certainly
She is without doubt a great writer.
Without a doubt we all are influenced by fashion in a number of ways.
used to say that something is very likely
No doubt she'll spend the money on new clothes.
No doubt I will find the skills acquired on the course, especially speaking skills, most useful in my future contacts with clients from English-speaking countries.
to make something seem uncertain
Witnesses have cast doubt on the suspect's innocence.
Wars lead to suffering, tears and the death of many people.They cast doubt on our humanity and values, especially in countries where the right to live is the principal one.
If something is true beyond a shadow of a doubt, it is certainly true.
He stole the money, without a shadow of a doubt.
It is beyond the shadow of a doubt that Douglas does not offer her this kind of life.
to feel uncertain about something or to think that something is not probable
I doubt whether/if I can finish the work on time.
I doubt (that) I'll get the job.
He may come back tomorrow with the money, but I very much doubt it.
She doubted if she could manage it at all.
to not believe someone or something
Do you have any reason to doubt her?
I urge you to act fast and promptly in order to avoid serious consequences: to apologise to the hospital, note the mistakes in your newspaper and to doubt the reliability of your source.
not probable
It is doubtful whether/if he'll be able to come.
It was doubtful that the money would ever be found again.
It is certainly doubtful to say that the characteristics we are born with have much more influence on our personality than any experiences we may have in our life.
not feeling certain about something
The teacher is doubtful about having parents working as classroom assistants.
I am very doubtful about whether you were there when it was held.
moving from above and onto a surface
Just as I was sitting down to watch TV, the phone rang.
Why don't you lie down on the sofa for a while?
This box is really heavy - can we put it down on the floor for a minute?
Get down off that table immediately, you silly girl!
So I sat down to write the answer.
towards or in a low or lower position, from a higher one
Is this lift going down?
Don't look down! You'll get dizzy.
The sun's going down and it'll be dark soon.
I bent down to look under the bed.
Lunch time in India is about 5 p.m, when the sun is going down.
in writing or on paper
Do you have it down in writing/on paper, or was it just a verbal agreement?
I've put you down for three tickets each.
You have to bring a pen and paper to write down the teacher's notes.
used, especially with prepositions, to emphasize that a place is far from you or from somewhere considered to be central
I'll meet you down at the club after work.
He has a house down by the harbour.
I'm going down to the shop to buy some milk.
As soon as we drove down from the hills, I heard the noise from the town and I didn't like that.
People or ideas that are down to earth are practical and work well.
David's a bit of a dreamer but Ruth's much more down to earth.
He has much practical knowledge, he is down to earth.
to be someone's responsibility or decision
I've done all I can now, the rest is down to you.
It is down to us to prevent homelessness.
Australia, or in Australia
She was born in Scotland, but she's been living down under for 22 years.
Last year a good friend of mine and I went to Australia. After a couple of days of doing some sightseeing and sunbathing on beautiful sandy beaches, we decided that we needed to get something more out of our stay down under.
in or towards a low or lower position, from a higher one
I slid down the hill.
Aikiko fell down some stairs and broke her wrist.
I was the first to go down the hill.
along or further along
We drove down the motorway as far as Bristol.
Her office is down the corridor on the right.
They sailed the boat down the river.
Then we went down the Nile by boat.
If money or work goes down the drain, it is wasted.
If you leave the course now, all your hard work will go down the drain.
All those evening conversations and the investment of 100,000 yen went down the drain, I thought.
unhappy or unable to feel excited or energetic about anything
She's been really down since her husband died.
I've been (feeling) a bit down this week.
If you are feeling down or depressed, what are you doing?
If a computer or machine is down, it is temporarily not working.
The network was down all morning.
If other departments use the online system, it seems to be down for a while.
having no money, no luck and no opportunities
Nobody loves you when you're down and out.
The neglect of social security as a vital point in state policies leaves homeless people down and out, with little chance for improving their bleak prospects.
to be unhappy
He looks a bit down in the dumps.
She felt happy when I was down in the dumps or in a fix and kept on being jealous of me concerning trivial matters.
towards the bottom of a hill or slope
It's so much easier cycling downhill.
Skiing downhill in deep snow is the most rewarding experience.
to gradually become worse
After his wife died, his health started to go downhill.
He had been going downhill in the last few days and so his death came as no surprise.
to copy computer programs, music or other information electronically, especially from the Internet or a larger computer
I've downloaded the program.
I left my computer in your sister's room as she wanted to download some songs from it to her laptop.
a computer program, music or other information that has been or can be downloaded
a free download
The upgrade will be available as a free download for registered customers.
the disadvantage of a situation
The downside of living in a city is all the pollution.
However, there is a downside to it as more and more products are exported/imported, domestic economies lose a lot trying - and usually failing - to face the competition that is coming from other countries.
to or on a lower floor of a building, especially the ground floor
I went downstairs to answer the phone.
While I was in your house, your mom called me to help her carry some stuff, so I left my purse on your bed, and went downstairs to help her.
on or at a lower floor of a building, especially the ground floor
The burglars had got in through a downstairs window.
Every year when winter comes, our heating doesn't work very well. The upstairs rooms are ok, but the downstairs rooms are cold.
Down-to-earth people or ideas are practical and work well.
I like your down-to-earth approach to problem-solving.
His huge popularity mainly lies in his down-to-earth attitude.
moving towards a lower position
a downward trend
Company B's profit marks a downward tendency from 1990 to 2000, going from a 2 million dollar profit to the extreme result of no profit at all.
a situation which is getting worse very quickly, and which is difficult to control
After his death, the family went into a downward spiral.
Unemployment is one of the major problems of our society. It is the first step of a downward spiral.
towards a lower place or level
The road slopes downwards to the river.
Water runs downwards into the turbine when the valve is open.
twelve
a dozen eggs
This recipe makes three dozen cookies.
Could you get me half a dozen eggs when you go to the shop?
We were a dozen people.
a lot
She's got dozens of friends.
There are, as well, dozens of robots able to handle any kind of work in our homes.
a title for someone who is a medical doctor or a Doctor of Philosophy
Dr Woolley has retired from the practice.
Dr. Ahuja has placed a virus in a suitcase.
a piece of writing or a plan that is not yet in its finished form
This is only a rough draft - the finished article will have pictures as well.
She asked me to check the first draft of her proposal.
Now I can use my computer for making monthly reports at home and making different kinds of project drafts.
to produce a piece of writing or a plan that you intend to change later
to draft a letter
I hope all these statements will help you to draft the new programme, good luck!
to move something on a computer screen using a mouse
Drag the icon to the new window.
to move something on a computer screen using a mouse and place it where you want it to be
drag and drop exercises
If you drag and drop something on a computer screen, you move it from one area to another using the mouse.
to pull someone or something along the ground, usually with difficulty
Pick the chair up instead of dragging it behind you!
She dragged the canoe down to the water.
Another man approached the agent, both watching as officers dragged the man to a nearby car.
to make someone go somewhere they do not want to go
She dragged me to the shops to look at shoes.
I have to drag myself out of bed every morning.
When she first saw him, speaking his radical views at some sort of political meeting she had been dragged along to by a friend, she was at first scared but later enchanted.
to continue for too much time in a boring way
The afternoon really seemed to drag.
The negotiations dragged on for months.
The afternoon dragged on interminably, and I suddenly felt like going out.
to remove the liquid from something, usually by pouring it away or allowing it to flow away
Drain the pasta and add the sauce.
We drained the pond and filled it with fresh water.
Peter the Great ordered the swampy lands to be drained.
If something drains, liquid flows away or out of it.
Don't bother drying the pans - just leave them to drain.
The sink doesn't drain, which is a major problem for me.
to reduce or cause something to reduce
The long war had drained the resources of both countries.
These people drain government funds that can be used to deal with unemployment.
to make someone very tired
The long journey drained him.
Especially when you've had a hard day at work, when the constant high temperature drains the energy from you, or when you're not feeling well because of any other reason, you need that comforting phone call from your best friend more than ever.
a pipe or hole that takes away waste liquids or water
She poured the dirty water down the drain.
I wish to put forward some ideas, which I think can help: checking the area and surroundings, making sure there is no garbage lying around; cleaning the fallen leaves etc. from the drains.
something that uses or wastes a lot of money or energy
Keeping these people in prison is a huge drain on government finances.
This need results in an ever-increasing drain on the country's resources.
If money or work goes down the drain, it is wasted.
If you leave the course now, all your hard work will go down the drain.
All those evening conversations and the investment of 100,000 yen went down the drain, I thought.
a play in a theatre or on television or radio, or plays and acting generally
She's been in several television dramas.
He's the drama critic for the Times.
She studied English and drama at college.
It was a drama club.
an event or situation, especially an unexpected one, in which there is worry or excitement and usually a lot of action
We had a little drama last night when the oil in the pan caught fire.
There was a lot of drama in the courtroom.
Fortunately he found my ring. How happy I was! The drama was over!
very sudden or noticeable, or full of action and excitement
a dramatic change/improvement
We watched scenes of the dramatic rescue on the news.
His suicide at the end of the book was the most dramatic event in this story and has touched me deeply.
suddenly or obviously
Your life changes dramatically when you have a baby.
She fell dramatically to the floor.
severe and sudden or having very noticeable effects
drastic measures
If within 30 days I don't receive any kind of compensation (preferably money), I may have to take drastic measures.
in a drastic way
The number of bees has drastically declined due to a combination of factors.
Conditions have changed drastically after the reunification.
a current of cold air in a room
There's a terrible draught coming from under the door.
When it is windy we can feel a draught.
to make a picture of something or someone with a pencil or pen
Jonathan can draw beautifully.
The children drew pictures of their families.
Draw a line at the bottom of the page.
You have to bring pencils and sheets of paper to draw on.
to move in a particular direction, especially in a vehicle
The train slowly drew into the station/drew in.
As we drew alongside the black car, I suddenly recognized my ex-boyfriend at the wheel.
Montgomery drew level with Greene in the 100 metres final, but never passed him.
I drew up at the gate of the house; the inside was in darkness and nobody seemed to be there.
to attract someone to a place or person
He's an excellent speaker who always draws a crowd.
In the darkness, dark figures moved and twisted, and I felt drawn toward those evil chanting hordes, they seemed to mesmerise me, was all this for real or just a kind of Hell?
to make someone notice something or someone
Could I draw your attention to item number three on the agenda?
Does he wear those ridiculous clothes to draw attention to himself?
Thank you very much for drawing attention to this letter.
to consider the facts of a situation and make a decision about what is true, correct, likely to happen, etc.
I'd seen them together so often I drew the logical conclusion that they were husband and wife.
Since nobody ever heard from them again, we all drew the sad conclusion that they must be dead.
to become nearer in space or time
Her birthday's drawing nearer every day.
I would appreciate it very much if you could reply as soon as possible, as the school holiday is drawing near.
to finish a game or competition with each team or player having the same score
England drew 2-2 against Italy.
to pull something or someone gently in a particular direction
He took her hand and drew her towards him.
As she drew me into the house she would tell me a story about Dari's absence and the newly-born puppies of Dari's, almost whispering into my ears as my eyes welled up with tears.
to be almost finished
At last the concert drew to a close.
As the dinner drew to an end, our weariness became all too clear.
to say that there is a similarity or difference between two things
We need to draw a distinction between criticism and insults.
A country should not be visited only to enable the tourist to draw a comparison between his country and the foreign one.
If someone says they know where to draw the line, they are talking about knowing at what point an activity or situation becomes unacceptable because it is wrong or too extreme
I swear a lot but even I draw the line at certain words.
A mistake is a mistake, people say. But in my opinion rape is not the same as shoplifting. So where do you draw the line?
a problem or disadvantage
The only drawback with this camera is the price.
One of the main drawbacks of the program is the amount of memory required.
Both perspectives are important, but, overall, the advantages of proper in-house teaching outweigh the drawbacks.
a box-shaped container without a top which is part of a piece of furniture. It slides in and out to open and close and is used for keeping things in.
I keep my socks in the bottom drawer.
I don't like to go through other people's drawers.
I think I left it in your drawer in the living room.
the act of making a picture with a pencil or pen, or a picture made in this way
Rosie loves drawing.
She gave me a beautiful drawing of a horse.
My hobbies are singing, dancing, drawing, writing, reading and so on.
to feel worried or frightened about something that has not happened yet
I'm dreading the first day at my new school.
I dread seeing him again.
You could go through life regretting the past and dreading the future, and become a grumpy old man, or you could take it all as it comes, and enjoy every single moment.
used to say that you do not want to think about something because it is too worrying
I dread to think what could have happened if we hadn't been wearing seat belts.
I dread to think what has happened to it since the day my younger brother left it in a park.
extremely bad or unpleasant
The food was bad and the service was dreadful.
I was beginning to think I'd made a dreadful mistake.
The news report was so dreadful that I just had to switch it off.
What a dreadful nightmare!
a series of events or images that happen in your mind when you are sleeping
a bad dream
I had a very odd dream about you last night.
Paul had a dream that he won the lottery.
I thought it was a very strange dream but her dream wasn't strange it was nice.
something that you want to happen very much but that is not very likely
It's always been my dream to have flying lessons.
Winning all that money was a dream come true.
My dream was to become a professional singer.
to not notice things that are around you because you are thinking about something else
The first time I saw a fashion show, I was 10 years old and I was in a dream during the whole show.
bigger or better than anything you could imagine or hope for
The house was beyond my wildest dreams.
It was beyond my wildest dreams.
used to say that something is better than anything you could imagine or hope for
Never in my wildest dreams had I thought I would be offered a starring role in Hollywood.
Not even in my wildest dreams could I have imagined that finding a diary was to have such fortunate consequences for me.
to experience events and images in your mind while you are sleeping
What did you dream about last night?
I often dream about/of flying.
I dreamed that I was having a baby.
It ran, ran, and I screamed - I was dreaming, but it was very real.
to imagine something that you would like to happen
He never dreamed that one day he would become President.
I have always dreamed of becoming a famous tennis player.
used to say that you would not do something because you think it is wrong or silly
I wouldn't dream of asking him for money.
Many people wouldn't dream of spending hours in a kitchen preparing a complex meal.
a piece of clothing for women or girls which covers the top half of the body and hangs down over the legs
a long/short dress
a wedding dress
I wore a new dress.
a particular style of clothes
casual/formal dress
You had better put on formal dress.
to put clothes on yourself or someone else, especially a child
My husband dresses the children while I make breakfast.
He left very early and had to dress in the dark.
Maria started to dress, but her suit was not there!
to wear a particular type of clothes
I have to dress quite smartly for work.
Patricia always dresses in black.
The waiters dress in national clothes and are very kind.
wearing clothes and not naked
I usually get dressed before I eat breakfast.
He was dressed in a dark grey suit.
They arrived early and I wasn't fully dressed.
While I got dressed he started to cook the dinner.
wearing clothing of a particular type
a well-dressed/casually dressed man
Last Saturday, there was a big party and everyone was well dressed.
to be moved slowly somewhere by currents of wind or water
Smoke drifted across the rooftops.
As the clouds drifted past it, the light slowly returned.
to get into a situation or job without having any particular plan
He drifted into acting after university.
But once Stevens had noticed their working relationship was slowly drifting into a kind of love affair, he proposed to stop these evening meetings on account of their being not useful in a professional sense any more.
a liquid or an amount of liquid which is taken into the body through the mouth
Would you like a drink of water/tea/juice?
They'd had no food or drink for two days.
I would like to have a drink.
alcoholic liquid
Whose turn is it to buy the drinks?
We ran out of drink at the party.
Will you to be able to bring some drink for dinner, eg. wine?
to take liquid into the body through the mouth
He drank three glasses of water.
The animals came down to the waterhole to drink.
You do not have to bring any food, but I'd be pleased if you could bring something to drink: wine, coke or something.
to drink alcohol
"Would you like a glass of wine?" "No thanks, I don't drink."
I didn't drink at all while I was pregnant.
Did you drink or dance at the party?
to move or travel on land in a motor vehicle, especially as the person controlling the vehicle's movement
I'm learning to drive.
"Are you going by train?" "No, I'm driving."
She drives a red sports car.
They're driving to Scotland on Tuesday.
We saw their car outside the house and drove on/past/away.
I drove my daughter to school.
I need them to drive my car.
to make someone extremely annoyed
My mother-in-law has been staying with us this past week and she's driving me crazy.
He leaves dirty clothes all over the floor and it's driving me mad.
It drove me crazy.
to make someone have a bad feeling or do something bad
The arguments and violence drove her to leave home.
She would discover all about her affair with Lorraine's husband and the real cause that drove him to commit suicide.
to provide the power or energy that makes someone or something work
She was driven by greed and ambition.
On the other hand, we are reassured by large international corporations that everything is under control, but it is common knowledge that these capitalistic monsters are so driven by greed for money and power that they would say anything to calm down the public.
a journey in a car
The drive from Boston to New York took four hours.
This restaurant is about a 1 hour drive from my home.
a part of a computer that can read or store information
Save your work on the C: drive.
Then we learned how to install components like a Soundboard or a CD-Rom drive.
energy and determination to achieve things
She has drive and ambition.
They definitely have the drive and motivation to succeed.
someone who drives a vehicle
a bus/lorry/truck/taxi driver
The driver of the van was killed in the accident.
If you don't know the place exactly ask the driver.
official permission for someone to drive a car, received after passing a driving test, or a document showing this
I have a clean driving licence.
This is very important for me, because inside this wallet are some very important documents, for example my driving licence and credit card!
to fall or to allow something to fall
She dropped her keys.
I'm always dropping things.
Amanda dropped her sunglasses in/into the fountain.
The book dropped from/off the shelf.
Don't drop it!/Don't let it drop!
Maybe this is the reason why I dropped my cup of tea.
to move something on a computer screen using a mouse and place it where you want it to be
drag and drop exercises
With simple mouse-clicks and by means of the well-known "drag-and-drop" method, this programme will enable you to select a fabric from the catalogue and "drop" it on a chair or couch, to see what they look like.
to move to a lower level, or cause something to move to a lower level
The water level in the flooded region has finally begun to drop.
The land drops (away) sharply behind the house.
We've had to drop our prices because of the recession.
Especially if you imagine that the number of heart-attacks was about 40% per year and for the last 3 years dropped down to 23%.
to stop doing or planning something, especially an activity
I'm going to drop yoga and do aerobics instead.
Can you drop what you're doing and help me with this report?
I think you shouldn't drop sports but on the other hand, if you drop sports and do music, it would be quite good as well.
to take someone or something to a place, usually by car as you travel somewhere else
I can drop you at the station on my way to work.
You had better hire a car or get to know somebody who can drop you there.
to stop talking about something, especially because it is annoying or upsetting someone
I don't want to talk about it any more - let's drop the subject.
to die very suddenly
He just dropped dead in the middle of the show.
We can enjoy our longer lives because we don't have to work until we drop dead.
a small round-shaped amount of liquid
I thought I felt a drop of rain.
There were little drops of paint on the kitchen floor.
I could only hear the drops against the window-pane.
a reduction in the amount or level of something
a drop in crime
The recent drop in magazine subscriptions is causing some concern.
It maintained the same level between 1998 and 2008 after a drop from 1996 to 1998.
a vertical distance down from somewhere to the ground
It's a drop of about 50 metres from the top of the cliff.
a very small amount compared to the amount needed
My letter of protest was just a drop in the ocean.
Naturally it is a drop in the ocean, but we can hope that the others will imitate our behaviour.
a long period when there is no rain and people do not have enough water
A severe drought ruined the crops.
We have wars, revolutions, political unrest, famine, drought, pollution, etc. Some of our problems are difficult to solve.
to die because you are under water and cannot breathe, or to kill someone in this way
Two people drowned in a boating accident yesterday.
Those days we spent in Brazil were full of excitement and I certainly wouldn't mind doing it again - well, except for the episode in which you almost drowned when we went water-skiing.
If a loud noise drowns the sound of something else, it prevents that sound from being heard.
His voice was drowned out by the traffic.
It is furthermore impossible to listen to music as it is drowned by the noise.
any natural or artificially made chemical which is used as a medicine
anti-cancer/fertility/pain-killing drugs
a prescription drug
He takes several drugs for his condition.
A great many drug companies all over the world have reduced input of dangerous chemicals into rivers, lakes and seas.
any natural or artificially made chemical which is taken for pleasure, to improve someone's performance of an activity, or because a person cannot stop using it
illegal drugs
a drug addict
drug addiction/abuse
She began to suspect that her son was on/taking/doing drugs.
Of course, I have never taken drugs.
a round, hollow musical instrument that you hit with your hand or a stick
a bass/snare/kettle drum
a drum beat
I am a very good drummer because I have played the drums for six years.
unable to behave or speak normally because of having had too much alcohol
He got very drunk at my sister's wedding.
I'd had a glass of wine but I certainly wasn't drunk.
He came home last night blind drunk.
So, I just sat down watching Julie and her monstrous friends drinking and acting like animals - they were all blind drunk!
describes something that has no water or other liquid in, on, or around it
My hat kept my hair dry.
These plants grow well in a dry climate.
This cake's a bit dry - I think I overcooked it.
So when the clothes were dry, I called a taxi.
with no or not much rain
a dry summer
It said: "My sweet darling, the weather here in Africa is hot and dry, but the nights are cold and lonely without you."
Dry wine is not sweet.
I'd like a glass of dry white wine.
The only wine sold - a dry white wine of a very good quality - is the one made by the owners of the restaurant and I can assure you that it's worth trying it.
Dry skin or hair does not feel soft or smooth.
My lips feel really dry.
She looked old, her skin was dry and her eyes so lucid... .
If a book, talk, or subject is dry, it is not interesting.
His writing is always so dry and dull.
Facts and dates are dry and empty if teachers are not able to bring them to life.
to become dry, or to make something become dry
Will this paint dry by tomorrow?
Hang the clothes up to dry.
The fruit is dried in the sun.
I invited him to come inside and dry his clothes and have a cup of tea.
having two parts, or having two of something
dual nationality
She's got a bit of a dual personality.
I have dual nationality.
thought not to be completely true, honest, or legal
dubious evidence
a man with a dubious reputation
He was blackmailed, his children were twice kidnapped and his wife was badly injured in mysterious and dubious circumstances.
not certain that something is good or true
He's dubious about the benefits of acupuncture.
As far as entertainers are concerned, I am rather dubious about their contribution to a better world.
a bird that lives by water, has webbed feet, a short neck and a large beak
We took some bread to feed the ducks.
There was a big lake, with a lot of ducks.
If criticisms, insults, etc. are like water off a duck's back to you, they do not affect you at all.
She calls him lazy and useless, but it's like water off a duck's back.
The main lesson I have learned is by looking at some people who have lived alone for most of their life and faced with neither contradiction nor argument, they stay in their ivory tower, so sure of their opinions that whatever you say is like water off a duck's back.
expected to happen, arrive, etc. at a particular time
What time is the next bus due?
The next meeting is due to be held in three months' time.
Their first baby is due in January.
It is my science assignment which is due on Tuesday, so I have no time to research and write it again.
because of
A lot of her unhappiness is due to boredom.
Due to wet leaves on the line, this train will arrive an hour late.
First of all, I want to say that France is the best place to cycle, due to its mountains and fantastic forests.
at a suitable time in the future
The results will be sent to you in due course.
I look forward to hearing from you in due course.
If you are due for something, it should happen very soon.
I'm due for a check-up at the dentist's.
The facilities and canteen are due for improvement too.
Something that is due to you is something that is owed to you or something you deserve.
He didn't get the praise and recognition that was due to him.
Slowly she walked into the living room, knowing that a big apology was due to her.
correct and suitable
He was fined for driving without due care and attention.
However, we should take due care not to make wrong assumptions and be prejudicial to others as a consequence.
not interesting or exciting in any way; boring
She wrote dull, respectable articles for the local newspaper.
He's pleasant enough, but deadly dull.
In my opinion the film was very boring because the story was poor and dull.
not bright
dull colours
dull weather
Confronted with her childrens' styles she changed from old-fashioned skirts in dull colours to comfortable jeans and colourful shirts.
physically unable to talk
The child is deaf and dumb.
The first one is "Lessons of Piano". It is the story of a dumb woman who uses a piano to express her feelings and moods.
to put something somewhere to get rid of it, especially in a place where you should not put it
The company was fined for illegally dumping toxic chemicals.
I can pick up all the bottles and other rubbish that are dumped on the street where I live.
to put something somewhere quickly and carelessly
Henri dumped his bag on the table and went upstairs.
Annabel dumped her school bag on the floor and threw herself onto her bed.
to suddenly end a romantic relationship
If he's so awful, why don't you just dump him?
I had just been dumped by a guy I thought I was in love with.
a place where people take things that they do not want
We took our old mattress to the dump.
Thankfully, with the help of the government, a recycling centre was built nearby and so the rubbish littering the streets, as well as that being taken to the dump, was cut down by 60%.
a place that is dirty and untidy
His room is a dump.
to be unhappy
He looks a bit down in the dumps.
She felt happy when I was down in the dumps or in a fix and kept on being jealous of me concerning trivial matters.
the amount of time that something lasts
The singer remained in the hotel for the duration of his stay in the UK.
If you are between 18 and 30 years old, we offer you a wide range of jobs with a duration varying from two weeks to three months.
for the whole of a period of time
They work during the night and sleep by day.
There were huge advances in aviation technology during World War Two.
We sat together during the lesson.
at some time between the beginning and the end of a period
I woke up several times during the night.
The programme will be shown on television during the weekend.
I'm going to see them during this holiday.
dry dirt in the form of powder that covers surfaces inside a building, or very small dry pieces of soil, sand or other substances
The furniture was covered in dust.
A cloud of dust rose in the air as the car roared past.
coal dust
Also, in the countryside there are more bugs and dust than in the city.
a large container for rubbish from a house or other building, usually made of strong plastic or metal and kept outside
I threw his old clothes in the dustbin.
Finally, I will put this horrible yellowed carpet in the dustbin!
covered with dust
a dusty old chair
Not a sound could be heard in the dusty street except for the continuous roar of my almost useless pick-up.
something that you have to do because it is part of your job, or something that you feel is the right thing to do
I felt it was my duty to tell them the truth.
He only went to see her out of duty.
It is not enjoyable if you look at it as a duty.
something you do as part of your job or because of your position
professional/official duties
And it is the most important duty of the local police to keep an eye on hooligans.
If someone such as a doctor or a soldier is on duty, they are working, and if they are off duty, they are not working.
What time are you off/on duty tomorrow?
I was on duty in front of the major's house with another soldier.
Duty-free goods are things you can buy and bring into a country without paying tax.
I bought some duty-free perfume at the airport.
We went to get some alcohol in a duty-free shop.
a cover filled with feathers or warm material that you sleep under
She snuggled down under the duvet.
So I'm thinking of buying a feather duvet, a real one!
ABBREVIATION FOR digital versatile disc or digital video disc: a disc used for storing and playing music, films or information
I've got a DVD of the first series.
Is the film available on DVD?
a DVD drive/player
ALL our friends were there and I got a new DVD!
to keep thinking or talking about something, especially something bad or unpleasant
I don't want to dwell on the past.
Considering this astonishing technical feature, I do not wish to dwell too long upon the subject.
full of ideas, energy and enthusiasm
She's young and dynamic and will be a great addition to the team.
I am a cheerful, dynamic and hardworking person.
continuously changing or moving
a dynamic economy
Consequently, the country has a less dynamic economy.
every one in a group of two or more things or people when they are considered separately
There are five different leaflets - please take one of each.
The bill comes to £36, so between four of us that's £9 each.
I'm selling them for £5 each.
used to show that each person in a group of two or more people does something to the others
They kept looking at each other and smiling.
They're always wearing each other's clothes.
Why are you always arguing with each other?
We can write to each other once a month.
referring to every one in a group of two or more things or people when they are considered separately
Each apartment has its own balcony.
Each of the companies supports a local charity.
I'm free each afternoon after 4.00 p.m.
wanting to do or have something very much
She sounded very eager to meet you.
They crowded round the spokesperson, eager for any news.
We are six Italian teenagers eager to meet new people.
in an eager way
an eagerly awaited announcement
I'm eagerly waiting for your reply.
when you are eager to do something
In their eagerness to find a solution, they have overlooked certain difficulties.
I really admire your stamina, your commitment and your eagerness to pursue a career as one of the youngest vice presidents ever in the company, but is it really worth it?
a large, strong bird with a curved beak that hunts smaller animals
For many animals zoos are the only hope for survival: for example the Chinese panda or white eagle.
one of the two organs on your head that you hear with
She leant over and whispered something in his ear.
The hearing in my left ear's not so good.
My friend Maria gave me a dog. It's a cocker and has long ears.
to be very surprised when you hear what someone says
I couldn't believe my ears when Dan said they were getting married.
I couldn't believe my ears. All my wishes had come true.
to be good at hearing, repeating, or understanding a particular type of sound
He has no ear for music.
In terms of communication I believe that I have an ear for languages.
to play a piece of music by remembering the notes
She plays all the songs by ear.
As the years went by, she found it hard to cope with her slow headway in classical piano and her endlessly unfinished songs played by ear.
to decide how to deal with a situation as it develops
I'm not sure what to tell Dad - I'll just have to play it by ear.
On the way to Cambridge, I had made up my mind to play it by ear.
If advice or a request falls on deaf ears, people ignore it.
Our pleas for help fell on deaf ears.
His cry for help and for a more meaningful relationship between himself and Mildred invariably fell on deaf ears.
pain in your ear
He was suffering from earache.
I feel ill and I've got earache.
near the beginning of a period of time, process, etc.
I get up early during the week.
She starts work fairly early.
Martin gets up early - at 5.00 am.
before the usual time or the time that was arranged
If you finish early, you can go home.
The plane arrived ten minutes early.
We'll finish it early.
near the beginning of a period of time, process, etc.
the early 1980s
This was in the early days of car design.
My earliest memory is of being shown around our new house.
Tomorrow please come in the early morning.
before the usual time or the time that was arranged
I'm going to have an early night.
She took early retirement.
I have been thinking about early retirement.
in the first stage or part of something
I lost interest quite early on in the book.
What luck that I found such a yardstick early on in my childhood.
used after a time or date to show that something will not happen before then
Building will not begin until July at the earliest.
to get money for doing work
She earns more than £50,000 a year.
How much do you earn, if you don't mind me asking?
We can wash cars to earn some money for the necessary materials.
to work to get money for the things you need
You can't expect to earn a living from your painting.
We work to earn a living.
to get something that you deserve because of your work, qualities, etc.
As a teacher you have to earn the respect of your students.
Okonkwu was totally different. He was very disciplined and focussed. ... He wanted to earn the respect of his society.
money that you get for working
Average earnings for skilled workers are rising.
Finally, I think that publishers are so worried about their earnings that they don't pay attention to new writers.
a piece of jewellery that you wear on or through your ear
gold/silver earrings
a pair of earrings
He was wearing an earring in his left ear.
It is a gold earring and it is on the table I think.
the planet that we live on
The Earth takes approximately 365 days to go round the Sun.
Swimming in a pool is the best place on Earth to be on a hot day like this.
I like it because it is the best football on Earth!
soil or ground
The ploughed earth looked rich and dark.
At the same time, the two sisters began to throw earth and stones.
used when you are extremely surprised, confused, or angry about something
Why on earth didn't you tell me before?
How on earth can you have a coach without a toilet?
People or ideas that are down to earth are practical and work well.
David's a bit of a dreamer but Ruth's much more down to earth.
He has much practical knowledge, he is down to earth.
a sudden movement of the Earth's surface, often causing severe damage
A powerful earthquake struck eastern Turkey last night.
Human beings are afraid of dangers such as a tornado or earthquake.
If you do something with ease, it is easy for you to do it.
She won the 400m race with ease.
I was amazed at the ease with which she learnt the language.
She finally left the small village in the pursuit of her goal, which she achieved with relative ease.
feeling relaxed and comfortable
I felt completely at ease with him.
I really felt at ease: your house is very comfortable and the neighbours are nice people.
not relaxed and feeling anxious
I always felt very ill at ease in his company.
I was a bit annoyed, or rather, ill at ease at first; but his kindness soon made me feel relaxed in his company.
with no difficulty or effort
I can easily get some food on the way home tonight, if you'd like.
She makes friends very easily.
I think you can find it very easily, because it is in the centre of my home town.
used to emphasize that something is likely
A comment like that could easily be misunderstood.
Considering the results of our research and the available alternatives, we came to the conclusion that there is no valid reason for replacing a valuable park with a car park that could easily be located somewhere else.
certainly the best/worst/biggest, etc.
It was easily the biggest dog I have ever seen.
In conclusion, the percentage of newly employed make up easily the biggest proportion of UK university students that graduated in 2001.
the direction that you face to see the sun rise, opposite to the west
The points of the compass are North, South, East and West.
Which way is east?
the part of an area that is further towards the east than the rest
Her home is in the east of France.
Most of the country, except the east, is rural.
You can visit the east of the town.
the countries of Asia
She spent her childhood in the East - mostly in China and Japan.
in or forming the east part of something
New York is east of Chicago.
The east wall of the mosque is covered with a beautiful mosaic.
I'll visit the romantic Robin Hood's Bay on the east coast of England.
towards the east
They sailed further east.
We went east to Oslo.
in or from the east part of an area
The eastern part of the country is very mountainous.
After that you can catch a train which takes you to the eastern part of Switzerland.
in or from the countries of Asia
Buddhism and other Eastern religions fascinate me.
I would like to know if the restaurant has Eastern or Asian food?
not difficult
an easy exam
Would a ten o'clock appointment be easier for you?
It's easy to see why he's so popular.
She's very easy to talk to.
The easiest thing to do would be for us to take the train home.
It's very easy.
to do what is easiest in a difficult situation
I know you don't approve of his working methods, but why not take the easy way out this time and agree to his request?
On the other hand you cannot survive without your pay-check and to be able to both make a career and have the time to be green, sometimes you just have to take the easy way out.
to relax and not use too much energy
After his heart attack, he had to take things easy for a while.
Take it easy and see you soon.
used to say that something seems like a good idea but it would be difficult to do
I want to ask her out, but it's easier said than done.
I know it's easier said than done but you have to try.
usually relaxed and calm, not worried or upset
My brother is easygoing, but I'm the excitable type.
She was friendly, easygoing and sociable, and I enjoyed my free time with her.
to put food into your mouth and then swallow it
Who ate all the cake?
I haven't eaten since breakfast.
Let's have something to eat.
I want to go to the river and eat a big chocolate cake.
to have a meal
We usually eat at about 7 o'clock.
I go there to eat whenever I have time.
behaving in a strange and unusual way
an eccentric professor
eccentric behaviour
Celebrities become eccentric to the point of godlike insanity.
If a sound echoes, or a place echoes with a sound, you hear the sound again because you are in a large, empty space.
Their voices echoed around the room.
Our cheer of delight united with the neighing of the horses and the din of the hens still echoes in my ears.
to repeat something that someone else has said because you agree with it or to express similar ideas or feelings to someone else
This report echoes some of the earlier research I've read.
Her feelings are echoed by other parents in the same situation.
I find myself echoing many of the points you have raised.
a sound that you hear more than once because you are in a big, empty space
I could hear the echo of the bell.
You can always hear the echo of a bell.
relating to ecology or the environment
The destruction of the rain forests is an ecological disaster.
There are ecological, technical, and social problems.
in a way that relates to ecology or the environment
It's an ecologically friendly/sound means of transport.
the relationship between living things and the environment, or the scientific study of this
The oil spill caused terrible damage to the fragile ecology of the coast.
This solution supports business - well, then it's up to the residents to choose either business or ecology.
relating to trade, industry and money
We have seen ten years of economic growth.
The government's economic policies have led us into the worst recession for years.
Nowadays there are economic problems in many countries.
not using a lot of money, fuel, etc.
What's the most economical way of heating this building?
There's increasing demand for cars which are more economical on fuel.
Moreover a bike is a very economical means of transport because it does not need any fuel.
the study of the way in which trade, industry and money are organized
She's in her third year of economics at York University.
I am 20 years old and I am studying economics at university in Berlin.
a person who studies or has a special knowledge of economics
I discovered that one of the examiners was a very famous economist.
the system by which a country produces and uses goods and money
the German/US economy
the global economy
a weak/strong economy
The economy has been growing at a rapid rate these past five years.
Tourism contributes millions of pounds to the country's economy.
As China's economy is growing fast, we will run low on resources soon.
the part of something that is furthest from the centre
He'd piped fresh cream around the edge of the cake.
They built the church on the edge of the village.
I caught my leg on the edge of the table as I walked past.
A man was standing at the water's edge with a small boy.
Finally, I managed to move my right foot closer to the edge.
the part of a blade of a knife or tool that cuts, or any sharp part of an object which could cut
Careful with that open tin - it's got a very sharp edge.
When I sat down, I didn't notice that the seat in front of me was broken on the side, and when it was time for me to get off the bus, I cut my hand on the sharp edge.
to be slightly better than someone or something else
When it comes to food, I think France still has the edge over most countries.
The majority of people tend to believe that those who live in big cities have the edge over the others.
to be nervous or worried
Sorry for shouting - I'm a bit on edge today.
I was consequently on edge all the time and was not able to have fun as much as the others did.
safe to eat and not harmful
edible berries
Part of your journey can be made through the forests where you can pick up some edible berries and wild mushrooms but be careful, you may need the local guide to help you with decisions there.
to prepare text, film, etc. by deciding what to include and by correcting mistakes
Janet edited books for a variety of publishers.
The film's 129 minutes were edited down from 150 hours of footage.
If you can edit these errors, I would appreciate it.
a book, newspaper, etc. that is one of several that are the same and were produced at the same time
a new edition
the paperback/hardback edition of the dictionary
The local/regional editions of the paper contain specific information for that area.
With reference to your advertisement in Thursday's edition of the Daily Star, I am interested in applying for the position of babysitter.
a person who corrects or changes text, film, etc., or a person who is in charge of a newspaper or magazine
She's a senior editor in the reference department of a publishing company.
Who is the current editor of the Times?
It seems to me that you don't take your job as seriously as every reader expects from an objective and informative newspaper editor.
to teach someone at a school, college or university
She was educated at Crown Woods secondary school.
How much does it cost to educate a child privately?
Occasionally, students are not being educated equally. I strongly believe that students have to have the right to choose their subjects.
to give people information about something so that they understand it better
The government say they are trying to do more to educate the public about the consequences of drug abuse.
Therefore, in my opinion, if people had been educated to love and respect nature, zoos would have already been abolished.
Someone who is educated has learned a lot at school or in college and has a good level of knowledge.
These are all educated, professional people.
I'm going to buy a computer because I think it is a very useful and important thing for every educated person.
a guess that is probably correct because you have enough knowledge about something
I know you don't have the exact figures with you, but make an educated guess.
If we make an educated guess, we will probably suppose that this tendency will continue for the next few years and that there will be a time when we won't be able to do anything without medicines.
the process of teaching or learning in a school or college, or the knowledge that you get from this
primary/secondary/adult/university/higher education
As a child he received most of his education at home.
It's a country which places great importance on education.
It's important for children to get a good education.
During my education I realised that it is very important for my career to speak English very well.
providing education or relating to education
educational toys
Reducing the size of classes may improve educational standards.
I want to ask you if the cinema could provide some extra services to the community, such as showing educational films for free.
the result of a particular influence
The accident had a huge effect on her life.
We don't know the long-term effects of this drug.
The next day, my teacher asked me to stand in front of all the students and then she told my classmates that being honest could always bring us a gift or have a fantastic effect on our life.
a sound, image, etc. that is created artificially
It's got to be thirty seconds long, and we can use whatever sound effects we like.
The film was amazing, with excellent special effects and good actors.
make little/no difference
The new measures have had little effect on ordinary people's lives.
As for the weather, it was only a five-minute shower that soon went over and therefore had no effect on the show.
to start to produce results or changes
They had to wait ten minutes for the anaesthetic to take effect.
Some factories tried to organize the transport for the employees, but it took effect in small towns only, where people live within shorter distances.
used to say what the real situation is
This means, in effect, that the plan has been scrapped.
However, if the government increases the amount of money they pay to the unemployed, that in effect means higher taxes for the citizens which will cause strikes and various other problems.
to start being used
New food safety rules come into effect on Monday.
For a case in point consider London - ask any Londoner who lived in this city before this ban came into effect.
successful or achieving the results that you want
effective management
It's an extremely effective cure for a headache.
The lighting for the production made a very effective use of shadow.
She's a very effective teacher.
To be honest, I don't think it's very effective, but we have to do something against fat.
in a way that is successful and achieves what you want
Teachers need to be able to communicate ideas effectively.
The tablets work more effectively if you take a hot drink after them.
As well as learning English, we should be aware of the cultures of many countries in order to be able to communicate more effectively.
used when you describe what the real result of a situation is
His illness effectively ended his career.
We have to remember that the Spanish language is becoming increasingly important, especially in countries like the US, where it is effectively THE second language of communication.
the degree to which something achieves its intended result
There are doubts about the effectiveness of the drug.
If this is done, the effectiveness of the lessons will no doubt be increased.
when someone or something uses time and energy well, without wasting any
What is so impressive about their society is the efficiency of the public services.
energy/fuel efficiency
Finally, I think modern technology makes me do my business faster, with much more efficiency.
working or operating quickly and effectively in an organized way
The city's transport system is one of the most efficient in Europe.
We need someone really efficient who can organize the office and make it run smoothly.
The staff were so courteous and efficient, and the atmosphere was intimate and relaxing.
quickly and effectively in an organized way
She runs the business very efficiently.
Needless to say, the computer plays a key role in making us use a library efficiently.
an attempt to do something
If we could all make an effort to keep this office tidier it would help.
In their efforts to reduce crime the government have expanded the police force.
He's jogging round the park every morning in an effort to get fit for the football season.
So they planned everything and they didn't have to make an effort as the stupid "kidnapper" was walking my dog round the park before the meeting so they arrested him and I got my dog back.
the energy that you need to do something
They've put a lot of effort into getting the design of the magazine right.
It takes a long time to prepare the dish but the results are so good that it's worth the effort.
It would take too much effort to tidy his bedroom.
We climbed a mountain and it was so hard, but the effort was worth it because the view was beautiful.
to be difficult, tiring or boring to do
After his accident, walking was an effort.
Sometimes, just getting out of bed in the morning is an effort.
It was a bit of an effort but actually such a small thing for him to do.
an oval object with a hard shell which is produced by female birds, especially chickens, and which is eaten as food
a hard-boiled/soft-boiled egg
How do you like your eggs - fried or scrambled?
I like to eat soup, eggs, meat and salad, and drink orange juice.
an oval object with a hard shell that contains a baby bird, insect or other creature
The cuckoo lays her egg in another bird's nest.
After fourteen days the eggs hatch.
The only thing they can do is to lay eggs.
a sum of money that has been saved or kept for a specific purpose
She used her nest egg to buy a really good piano.
She was the only heir of a rich family and her husband, who died ten years ago, left her a sizeable nest egg.
the number 8
She was eight years old when her family moved here.
We've got eight people coming to dinner.
I will arrive at eight in the morning.
the number 18
seventeen, eighteen, nineteen
an eighteen-storey building
I want to sell a bike. It is eighteen years old.
8th written as a word
He finished eighth in the race.
Bob's birthday is on the eighth (of June).
I'm free on the eighth of June.
the number 80
seventy, eighty, ninety
They've invited eighty (guests) to the wedding.
The film is a fantasy novel and it was written by Tolkien about eighty years ago.
to be aged between 80 and 89
Many of the residents are in their eighties.
the years from 1980-1989
They moved to Britain in the eighties.
He is a normal man with no special education but he became famous during the eighties as a musician.
used when you are giving a choice between two or more things
Either you leave now or I call the police!
I thought: "Either I talk to her now or I won't be able to talk to her at all!"
used in negative sentences to mean that something else is true
I don't eat meat and my husband doesn't either.
"I've never been to the States." "I haven't either."
The menu is boring at that restaurant and it's not cheap either.
It's so quick and not too expensive either.
one of two people or things when it is not important which
Either candidate would be ideal for the job.
"Would you like the metal or plastic one?" "Either will do."
But, either option, call me at my house before coming.
used to talk about two possibilities where the result will be the same
You can get there by train or bus - either way it'll take an hour.
He might have to resign or he might be given a desk job, but either way, his career is effectively over.
If that doesn't work, you can ask them to talk to your friends' parents so you could all go together. Either way, I know you will have lots of fun this summer.
each of two sides, ends, etc.
Unfortunately I was sitting at the table with smokers on either side of me.
There are two entrances, one at either end of the campsite.
You can watch it while it's eating: standing up on its back legs and holding the nut with its front legs, then putting all of it into one of its two "sacks" on either side of its mouth.
complicated, detailed, or made carefully from many parts
an elaborate system/scheme
an elaborate design
A nurse was standing nearby, adjusting an intravenous vial suspended by an elaborate array of tubes.
If time elapses, it passes.
Two years have elapsed since the attack.
Two weeks elapsed and, not receiving any message from the music shop, I had to confess to my mother my new expenses, because I was starting my classes and the postman could arrive at any moment.
extremely happy and excited
We were elated by/at the news.
When the show was over and I staggered from the scene I found myself in some kind of rose-tinted daze, elated by the sheer joy that, at least for me, only music can bring.
the part in the middle of your arm where it bends
Her arm was bandaged from the elbow to the fingers.
I was sure I would have a beautiful bruise on my elbow.
a sister/brother/son/daughter who is older than the other sister(s), brother(s), etc.
My elder sister is getting married.
My elder brother visited me in Berlin as you know.
the older person of two people
Of the two brothers, Harvey is the elder.
The most interesting characters of "Jamaica Inn" are the Merlyn brothers. We first meet Joss, the elder, when Mary, the heroine of the story, arrived at the inn.
people older than you
I was taught to respect my elders.
Little can our elders do to enlighten us if they are chained to a machine to keep on breathing.
a more polite word for 'old', used to describe people
elderly relatives/parents
This short story is about a man who is accused of having murdered a rich elderly widow.
people who are elderly
The elderly are given help with fuel bills.
I also heard complaints from the elderly, fearing the city streets due to the traffic, something that would not be resolved by a central parking lot, and certainly the elderly would be the ones worst affected by increased pollution, with their less effective immune systems.
the oldest of three or more children, brothers, etc., especially within a family
Her eldest child is nearly 14.
And guess who I met: Jack Hawk, Tony Hawk's eldest son.
a person who is the oldest of three of more people
He was the eldest of four kids.
She's the eldest - 98 years old - and knows the whole history of our town.
to choose someone for a particular job or position by voting
He was elected president in 1997.
She was elected to the US Senate in 2004.
We elected him as our representative.
In 1987 a young girl, Cecilia Bolocco, was elected Miss Chile.
a time when people vote in order to choose someone for a political or official job
a presidential election
Who do you think will win the election?
Local government elections will take place in May.
The first election results have started to come in.
The film shows very different things about the American election.
Electric lights, tools, etc. work using electricity.
an electric car/heater
I like rock music so if you want I can play my electric guitar at your concert.
supplying electricity
an electric socket
The weight of the snow broke the branches of the trees and some branches fell on electric cables, breaking them.
full of excitement and emotion
The atmosphere backstage was electric.
related to or working using electricity
electrical appliances/equipment/goods
an electrical fault
Japan is famous for electrical things, and you can buy them cheaper than you do in other countries.
relating to the production and supply of electricity
an electrical engineer
As an electrical engineer, computer training is very important to me in several ways.
someone whose job is to put in, check or repair electrical wires and equipment
We have an electrician coming round to put some new sockets in.
I rang up an electrician and told him about the problem.
a type of energy that can produce light and heat, or make machines work
The electricity has been turned off.
an electricity bill
You can also see how life is in our African villages, where there is no electricity or gas and where water comes only from the river.
Electronic equipment consists of things such as computers, televisions, and radios.
electronic components/devices
I like buying clothes, but I prefer buying some other stuff like electronic devices or that sort of thing.
done by computers
electronic communication
On the other hand, many people argue about the security of an electronic transaction and also that not many people have Internet access.
in a way that uses electronic equipment, especially a computer
electronically generated graphics
electronically stored information
I hope that you can subscribe to the Internet as well so that we can communicate electronically.
the scientific study of electric current and the technology that uses it
a degree in electronics
the electronics industry
I am still studying electronics and computer science.
when someone or something is stylish or attractive in their appearance or behaviour
We were impressed by the elegance of his clothes.
As with the sport I mentioned before, it also has the grace and elegance of a dancer and the technique, of course, of a skater.
stylish and attractive
She's a very elegant woman.
Tara looked very elegant in a simple black dress.
He led me to an elegant dining room.
The building itself looks grand and elegant.
in a way that is elegant
elegantly dressed
You should always be dressed elegantly.
a part of something
List the elements which make up a perfect dinner party.
The film had all the elements of a good thriller.
The main element of a novel is, of course, the story itself.
a simple substance that cannot be reduced to smaller chemical parts, for example hydrogen
Iron is one of the elements of the Earth's crust.
Cars produce CO2 and this combining of chemical elements pollutes our environment and promotes the Greenhouse effect.
a small amount of an emotion or quality
There's an element of truth in what she says.
I think the reason why I loved Marseille so much was because it brought an element of insecurity and danger into my life.
basic or relating to the early stages of studying a subject
students at elementary level
This book can be used by English students at an elementary level.
a very large, grey animal with big ears and a very long nose with which it picks things up
We saw elephants, tigers, snakes, monkeys... and in the afternoon we visited the museums.
the number 11
nine, ten, eleven, twelve
There are eleven girls in my class and fifteen boys.
I invited ten or eleven friends.
If you are eligible to do something, you can do it because you are in the right situation.
Only people over 18 are eligible to vote.
You might be eligible for a grant for your studies.
I am a member of ACCA Council, am I eligible for any discount on this Course, as I have information from AAA College that they can charge discounted fees for ACCA students?
to remove something from something, or get rid of something
The doctor advised me to eliminate salt from my diet.
The parents should spend enough time with their offspring and teach them the good things and eliminate the bad things.
to defeat someone so that they cannot go any further in a competition
She was eliminated after the first round of the tournament.
when you eliminate someone or something
the elimination of disease/pain
their elimination from the competition
Investments, education, birth control, political stability, jobs - all of these factors will contribute to the elimination of homelessness.
the richest, most powerful, or best educated group in a society
a member of the elite
an elite group
But before you decide to become one of the elite, you should think about all the freedom you would be giving up and all the freedom you would get.
in addition to someone or something
Would you like anything else to eat?
What else did he say?
The book definitely isn't here. Where else should I look?
If you need anything else, you'll find it in the classroom.
different from someone or something
I don't like it here. Let's go somewhere else.
If it doesn't work, try something else.
It's not my bag. It must be someone else's.
I think we should go somewhere else to have a drink after the film.
other things or people
I forgot my toothbrush, but I remembered everything else.
I turned up in my jeans and everyone else was dressed really smartly.
As this year I turned 12 my mum and dad gave me 12 gifts and everyone else gave me clothes or money.
used to say what will happen if another thing does not happen
We must be there by six, or else we'll miss the beginning.
He told me to hurry up, or else I would miss my bus.
used to compare two different things or situations
He talks to her all the time, or else he completely ignores her.
Naturally Olivia's leaving affects Douglas, though not as strongly as one could have expected or else he simply does not show it.
in or to another place
The report looks at economic growth in Europe and elsewhere.
They couldn't find what they wanted and decided to look elsewhere.
As for communication with our relatives in Sweden or elsewhere, the fax-machine turned out to be an excellent invention.
difficult to describe, find, achieve, or remember
The answers to these questions remain as elusive as ever.
Nowadays, the picture of a clean environment seems to be an elusive goal moving ever further from us.
the system for using computers to send messages over the Internet
You can contact me by email.
What's your email address?
If you like, I can send you this information by email.
a message or document sent electronically
I got an email from Danielle last week.
Please answer this email, don't forget.
to send a message using email
Email me when you've got time.
Has he emailed you that list of addresses yet?
I am emailing you to ask you if I could borrow your bike.
to make someone feel ashamed or shy
My dad's always embarrassing me in front of my friends.
He didn't deliberately lie to them and he comes to the conclusion that revealing the truth would have embarrassed them.
feeling ashamed or shy
She felt embarrassed about undressing in front of the doctor.
I was too embarrassed to admit that I was scared.
I went to the first lesson last week and I have to admit I felt a bit embarrassed about doing some writing at the beginning of the lesson.
making you feel embarrassed
an embarrassing situation
It's embarrassing to be caught telling a lie.
What has been your most embarrassing moment?
The first lesson was very embarrassing for me, because I went late.
when you feel embarrassed, or something or someone that makes you feel embarrassed
She blushed with embarrassment.
My parents were such an embarrassment to me.
Looking at his face she could see his embarrassment.
the official group of people who live in a foreign country and represent their government there, or the building where they work
the Swedish Embassy in London
The Ambassador held a reception at the embassy.
He lent me his cell phone to call the embassy.
to represent an idea or quality exactly
He embodies the values of hard work and fair play.
The triffids, an aggressive and dangerous species, a serious threat to the existence of mankind, embody the author's fear of what could be the result of genetic mutation.
to accept new ideas, beliefs, methods, etc. in an enthusiastic way
We are always eager to embrace the latest technology.
They seem to have embraced "the new deal" symbolising "freedom".
to include a number of things
The report embraces a wide range of opinions.
This should embrace things like examination entries (I was not able to enter for any exam due to time constraints), as well as "social affairs".
If you embrace someone, you put your arms around them, and if two people embrace, they put their arms around each other.
She embraced him warmly.
Prior to this fulfilling statement, the elderly couple had been sitting in their GP's waiting room, nervously embracing each other.
when you put your arms around someone
a passionate embrace
He took the baby home, nevertheless, and tried to learn how to deal with that quiet, funny-faced girl, who didn't seem to ask for anything but kisses and embraces.
to appear from somewhere or come out from somewhere
She emerged from the sea, blue with cold.
The owner of these eyes emerged from a nearby door, which was shabby and old, like the rest of the street.
to become known
It emerged that she had lied to her employers.
It emerged from the students' survey conducted during the recent protest that unhealthy food and little choice were the main reasons to complain, followed by high prices, unfriendly service and limited opening hours.
a serious or dangerous situation that needs immediate action
Call him - it's an emergency.
How would disabled people escape in an emergency?
Is the emergency exit suitable for wheelchairs?
The pilot of the aircraft was forced to make an emergency landing on Lake Geneva.
We really need you. It's an emergency.
famous, respected, or important
an eminent historian
Last year I was awarded a trip abroad with one of the most eminent professors of our University.
when gas, heat, light, etc. is sent out into the air, or an amount of gas, heat, light, etc. that is sent out
Carbon dioxide emissions will be reduced by 20%.
One may argue from the point of linking CO2 emissions to other known pollutants, like industry, but recent studies have shown traffic to be one of the most important causes of air pollution.
to send out gas, heat, light, etc. into the air
The machine emits a high-pitched sound when you press the button.
All the vehicles and factories emit fumes, which cause grave diseases such as cancer.
a strong feeling such as love or anger, or strong feelings in general
Like a lot of men, he finds it hard to express/show his emotions.
My mother was overcome with emotion and burst into tears.
Unlike Annie Lennox, whose voice sounds so pure and full of emotion.
relating to emotions
a child's emotional development
My doctor said the problem was more emotional than physical.
Doctors have found that many health problems are linked with emotional changes in a person's life.
having and expressing strong feelings
an emotional speech
I felt quite emotional during the wedding ceremony.
It was so big and full of people that she felt very emotional.
in a way that shows emotions or relates to emotions
She spoke emotionally about her experiences as a war correspondent.
Many children have become emotionally disturbed as a result of the abuse they have suffered.
After two days, Laura was emotionally and physically exhausted.
the ability to imagine what it must be like to be in someone's situation
He lacks empathy.
I developed my intercultural skills by joining forces with foreign vice presidents to solve common problems and thus acquired skills such as empathy with other cultures, commitment to a common goal and tolerance.
the male ruler of an empire
Emperor Charlemagne
I would certainly go, because it fascinates me how more or less 2,000 years ago, the Roman emperors could build up such a big empire.
the particular importance or attention that you give to something
There is a lot of emphasis on curing disease but too little emphasis on preventing it.
Schools here place/put great emphasis on written work and grammar.
In the tale "It's a good life", the author gives much more emphasis to Anthony than to anyone else in the story.
to show that something is especially important or needs special attention
She emphasized the need for better diet.
He emphasized that the driver was not to blame for the accident.
You can use italics or capitals to emphasize a word in a piece of writing.
To put it in a nutshell, I would like to emphasize the fact that I did not spend a "perfect evening out" at all.
a group of countries that is ruled by one person or government
the British Empire
All the Greeks can be very proud of him and have to hope that a general with unlimited skills like Alexander will make Greece an unstoppable and worldwide empire again.
a large group of businesses that is controlled by one person or company
a publishing empire
This concerns products like pizzas, French fries and of course hamburgers and the empire MacDonald's.
based on experience or scientific experiments and not only on ideas
empirical evidence
Nevertheless, empirical evidence confirms the importance of food in a country's culture.
to have someone work or do a job for you and pay them for it
How many people does your company employ?
Can't we employ someone as an assistant to help with all this paperwork?
We've employed a market researcher to find out what people really want from a cable TV system.
More people are now employed in service industries than in manufacturing.
As you know I am employed in a travel agency and last week I started my new English class.
to use something
Companies employ clever tactics to persuade us to buy their products.
A friend that I made on the course shares the same opinion and insists on the fact that the course gave us the opportunity to employ some of the techniques we practised in the "How to Negotiate" classes.
someone who is paid to work for someone else
The number of employees in the company has trebled over the past decade.
She's a former council employee.
There is an exotic atmosphere, helped by the pictures on the walls and the clothes of the employees.
a person or organization that employs people
We need a reference from your former employer.
I took this English course and my employer said, if I pass my exam, he will give me a bonus of fifty pounds.
when someone is paid to work for a company or organization
full-time/part-time/temporary/permanent/regular employment
Employment levels are unlikely to rise significantly before the end of next year.
It's not easy to find employment in the countryside.
Furthermore, the stores need more employees to work at night, and therefore create employment.
If something is empty, it does not contain any things or people.
an empty house/street
Shall I take the empty bottles for recycling?
The train was empty by the time it reached London.
So I haven't got any empty space for the computer.
having no meaning or value
an empty promise/threat
But on the other hand, I need to point out all the empty promises you made with your advertisements.
to make someone able to do something, or to make something possible
Computerization should enable us to cut production costs by half.
Furthermore, computers enable us to store any amount of necessary information, which probably would take plenty of room on our bookshelves, if in written form.
to send something in the same envelope or parcel as something else
I enclose a map of the area.
I enclose a copy of my curriculum vitae, which will give you further details about my career to date.
to be all around something and separate it from other things or places
The house is enclosed by parkland.
You know that Aragon is a deep valley which is enclosed by two ranges of mountains.
to experience something unpleasant
We encountered quite a few problems at the beginning.
On the other hand, we could infer that teenage life is quite a good time, as there is no stress or anxiety that is usually encountered later on in life.
to make someone more likely to do something, or to make something more likely to happen
We were encouraged to learn foreign languages at school.
Cutting back plants will encourage growth.
I thought it would be great to go and I encouraged them to do it.
to give someone confidence or hope
My parents encouraged me when things weren't going well at school.
We went into the ward and looked at her thinking all the happy thoughts we had with her and trying to encourage her to live.
when someone talks or behaves in a way that gives you confidence to do something
Children need lots of encouragement from their parents.
I could never have achieved this without the encouragement of my husband and family.
Children need some encouragement, which parents can provide at any time.
giving you confidence or hope
The team's performance was very encouraging.
an encouraging smile
She spoke about young people that want to start this kind of career: she was so encouraging!
the final part of something such as a period of time, activity, or story
I'll pay you at the end of next month.
The end of the film was much more exciting than I'd expected.
At the end of the party we ate cake.
the furthest part or final part of a place or thing
Our house is the third from the end on the left.
They were standing at opposite ends of the room.
Go up until you get to the end of the road.
finally, after something has been thought about or discussed a lot
We were thinking about going to Switzerland, but in the end we went to Austria.
Well I can only tell you what I would do, but in the end it's your choice.
when something stops happening
They are calling for an end to the violence.
My contract comes to an end in June.
My job comes to an end in two weeks, and then I will have one month free, so it will be possible for me to go on your next journey to Africa.
for hours/days, etc. without stopping
He waited by the telephone for hours on end.
You can find information on whatever issue you want, science, technology, business, arts, etc., everything is there, without mentioning the fantastic and simplified way of buying by internet or just surfing for hours on end for whatever thing you are interested in.
a lot
I've had no end of trouble finding a hotel room.
I had no end of fun when we were going to the beach and the car stopped and we had to go on foot.
to make something stop happening or existing
He's determined to put an end to these rumours.
Leg injuries put an end to his athletics career.
Maybe because I needed someone to know, or because I wanted to put an end to that feeling, and have a normal life.
to have just enough money to pay for the things that you need
I've taken a second job in the evenings just to make ends meet.
Most students support themselves and barely make ends meet every month.
to make something finish
The stories in the newspaper brought her career to a sudden end.
At the end of the year 2002 a great construction was brought to an end.
If something is not the end of the world, it will not cause very serious problems.
It won't be the end of the world if I don't get the job.
to be so tired, annoyed, or worried by something that you do not feel that you can deal with it
By the time the plumber arrived, I was at the end of my tether.
But when eventually Charles reaches the end of his tether and opts for the final solution, thus becoming for ever free, I think he is also subconsciously telling his mother: -"This is how I punish you for what you did to me and for what you allowed others to do to me: you shall have to live with my death for the rest of your life!"
to make someone start a new and difficult job or activity without helping them or preparing them for it
My first job was to organise a huge conference - they really threw me in at the deep end!
Sometimes we can be thrown in at the deep end and have qualms about making a decision.
If you do something to/till/until the bitter end, you continue it until it is finished, although it is difficult and takes a long time.
I was determined to go on until the bitter end.
We are willing to talk and find alternatives to the situation, but we are also ready to fight till the bitter end to stand for our rights.
a group of small objects of different types which are not valuable or important
I use this box to keep odds and ends in.
something that you do because it will help you to achieve something else
I didn't particularly like the job - it was just a means to an end.
Major international sports competitions can either be understood as a means to an end or an end in their own right.
the last part of something
the tail end of the eighties
Both Olivia's and the narrator's stories show India at crucial times of its history: at the tail end of the "Raj" and at the initial stage of a modern and independent country.
to finish or stop, or to make something finish or stop
When is your meeting due to end?
Their marriage ended in 1991.
The match ended in a draw.
I'd like to end with a song from my first album.
The talks were aimed at ending the war between the two countries.
The course ends on 30th September.
used of animals and plants which may soon disappear from the world because there are very few left alive
Tigers are now an endangered species.
Many endangered species have been saved by zoos which have been able to make them reproduce.
to try very hard to do something
I endeavoured to help her, but she wouldn't let me.
I totally agree with the latter and I shall endeavour to look at both points of view.
an attempt to do something
In spite of our best endeavours, it has proven impossible to contact her.
Getting to the South Pole was an amazing example of human endeavour.
No endeavour seems to be too great for him to achieve, no hurdle too high to overcome.
the last part of a story, film, etc.
People want love stories with happy endings.
This film is a typical romantic story with a happy ending.
a part added to the end of a word
To make the plural of 'dog', you add the plural ending '-s'.
never finishing, or seeming never to finish
We used to have endless arguments about politics.
He seems to think that I have an endless supply of money.
The possibilities are endless.
But there were long, seemingly endless holidays ahead.
to say publicly that you support a person, product or action
The idea was endorsed by a majority of members.
There is a dichotomy arising: on the one hand, they have an effect on the personal and national level, whilst on the other, an impressive profit-making enterprise has been built, mainly in the media and the area of sportswear endorsed by sports heroes.
to have a particular quality or characteristic
The country is richly endowed with natural resources.
That some people should have been lucky enough to have been endowed with the talent to write such music, and that some others should have had the gift of voices to sing it, truly leaves me very humble.
the ability to keep doing something difficult, unpleasant, or painful for a long time
a race to test athletes' endurance
What's more, athletes need endurance.
to suffer something difficult, unpleasant or painful
We had to endure a nine-hour delay at the airport.
She's already had to endure three painful operations on her leg.
In addition to this, I have been doing various kinds of sports including swimming and jogging, so I could endure a long trip.
a person who you dislike or oppose
He's made a few enemies in this company.
political enemies
I have made a lot of enemies.
a country, or the armed forces of a country, which is at war with another country
enemy forces/territory
The enemy had succeeded in stopping our supplies from getting through.
having or involving a lot of energy
an energetic young woman
I tried aerobics but it was too energetic for me.
I am a cheerful and energetic person.
the power and ability to be very active without becoming tired
Looking after children takes up a lot of time and energy.
I was going to go out this evening, but I just don't have the energy.
I didn't even have the energy to get out of bed.
In the evening, you can go to the pub to try Czech beer or if you have enough energy, you can go clubbing.
the power that comes from electricity, gas, etc.
It is important for us to save energy.
We mustn't waste energy.
nuclear/wind energy
energy conservation/efficiency
I thought of buying an air-conditioning unit, but it consumes too much energy, so I'm going to buy a fan, because it is very hot here.
to make people obey a rule or law
It is the duty of the police to enforce the law.
Traffic police rarely enforce the law on public transport vehicles, which leads to a lot of chaos.
to interest someone in something and keep them thinking about it
The debate about food safety has engaged the whole nation.
It would be great if we could employ professional entertainers to set up activities to engage people and buy fun prizes and awards.
having formally agreed to marry
Debbie and Chris have just got engaged.
She was engaged to some guy in the army.
I'm engaged to him.
If a telephone or public toilet is engaged, someone is already using it.
Every time I ring her, the number is engaged.
The sign on the toilet door said 'Engaged'.
I was worried and so I decided to phone him but the line was always engaged.
the part of a vehicle that uses energy from oil, electricity or steam to make it move
a jet/diesel engine
When we left there, I started my car but the engine didn't work.
someone whose job is to design, build or repair machines, engines, roads, bridges, etc.
a civil engineer
a mechanical/structural engineer
a software engineer
I can help with the concert, because I'm a sound engineer!
the work of an engineer, or the study of this work
Richard studied engineering at Manchester University.
His name is Marco and he is studying engineering.
giving all your attention to something
He was so engrossed in what he was doing that he didn't hear the bell.
Youngsters these days are so engrossed in their studies that they do not have much free time to enjoy themselves or make use of the above ways of entertainment.
to improve something
Winning that award greatly enhanced her reputation.
In addition, enhancing the reputation of the family might be another factor as well.
to get pleasure from something
I really enjoyed that film/book/concert/party/meal.
I enjoy meeting people and seeing new places.
I really enjoyed my party!
to get pleasure from something that you are doing
I think the party went well - people seemed to be enjoying themselves.
Did you enjoy yourself at Lucy's last night?
I'm sure you will enjoy yourself and will never regret visiting me and Azerbaijan.
to have or experience something good such as success
His play enjoyed great success on Broadway.
Before they can enjoy the flowers of success they have to endure the unbearable bitterness of failure.
An enjoyable event or experience gives you pleasure.
We had a very enjoyable evening - thank you!
I found the whole experience very enjoyable.
First, thanks for the most enjoyable weekend of my life.
when you enjoy something
Knowing the ending already didn't spoil my enjoyment of the film.
It is worth seeing because of the wonderful actors who play their roles with inspiration and enjoyment.
extremely large
an enormous car/house
He earns an enormous salary.
You've been an enormous help.
It has two bedrooms, an enormous bathroom, a small kitchen and a nice living-room.
as much as is necessary
Is there enough cake for everyone?
Have you had enough to eat?
There are 25 textbooks for the class - that should be enough.
I know enough about art to realise that this painting is special.
My favourite present is the concert tickets because I wanted to go the concert but I didn't have enough money.
as much as or more than is wanted
I've got enough work to do at the moment, without being given any more.
Half an hour in his company is quite enough!
Stop. You've made enough of a mess already.
You've drunk more than enough already.
Now I think I'm going to stay around here, as I have had enough disappointments for one summer.
to want something to stop because it is annoying you
I've had enough of your excuses.
My neighbours and I have had enough of this sudden and deafening noise, which seems to affect our pets as well.
as much as is necessary
Are you old enough to vote?
You're not driving fast enough.
He didn't study enough.
although it may seem strange
Strangely enough, I was just speaking to him the other day.
Today, strangely enough, people out on the sea, often local fishermen, see the complete castle, like a ghost.
used for saying that you can understand and accept someone's opinion or decision
"He says he'll only work on Sunday if he gets paid extra." "Fair enough."
Most of the streets are open to cars and therefore people tend to escape to a little area around the pedestrian streets. Fair enough, but it makes those streets terribly overcrowded.
as expected
He said the book was on his desk, and sure enough, there it was.
And sure enough, these challenging problems come unsolicited most of the time.
to ask someone for information about something
I'm enquiring about dentists in the area.
"Are you staying long?" she enquired.
I am writing to enquire about the job you are offering.
a question that you ask when you want more information
We receive a lot of enquiries about tax issues.
I also have some enquiries concerning the trip.
an official process to discover the facts about something bad that has happened
The hospital is holding an enquiry into the accident.
to improve the quality of something by adding something to it
Our culture has been enriched by the many immigrants who live here.
It can be of great assistance especially for those who start studying the Greek language and for those who want to enrich their knowledge, too.
to make something certain to happen
Please ensure that all examination papers have your name at the top.
Please ensure the above corrections and new information about Lampton are included in the next edition.
to come or go into a place
The police entered through/by the back door.
She is accused of entering the country illegally.
Without that identity card I can't enter my school.
to take part in a competition, race or examination
Are you going to enter the photography competition?
Both men have been entered for/in the 100 metres in Paris next month.
I have entered a competition and I need your bike.
to put information into a computer, book or document
You have to enter a password to access the database.
You only have to click on the product you want and enter your credit card number.
to begin a period of time
The violence is now entering its third week.
It is a family-run business which is now entering its tenth successful year.
a business or organization
a state-owned enterprise
It is true that many state enterprises went on strike several days ago, among others transport and medical services.
when someone is enthusiastic and willing to do something new and clever, although there are risks involved
The scheme shows imagination and enterprise.
I am talking about a frank and sincere young lady with enterprise.
a difficult and important plan
Putting on the concert will be a joint enterprise between the two schools.
She succeeded in whatever enterprises she undertook all through her life and even the death of her husband did not prevent her from carrying on.
to keep a group of people interested or enjoying themselves
We hired a magician to entertain the children.
Most children's television programmes aim to educate and entertain at the same time.
You should sing in a pub to entertain people.
someone whose job is to entertain people by singing, telling jokes, etc.
We've hired a children's entertainer for the party.
You could hire some entertainers.
funny and enjoyable
an entertaining story/film/talk
His books aren't particularly well-written, but they're always entertaining.
It is obvious that some people prefer reading books, while others claim that watching films is much more entertaining.
shows, movies, television, or other performances or activities that entertain people
There is live entertainment in the bar every night.
There's not much in the way of entertainment in this town - just the cinema and a couple of pubs.
You can find cinemas, discos and night clubs for entertainment.
a feeling of energetic interest in a particular subject or activity and an eagerness to be involved in it
One of the good things about teaching young children is their enthusiasm.
After the accident he lost his enthusiasm for the sport.
I am filled with enthusiasm about spending two weeks at Camp California in the U.S.A.
showing enthusiasm
You don't seem very enthusiastic about the party - don't you want to go tonight?
I've got a lot of friends who are really enthusiastic about cycling and we often go cycling together.
in an enthusiastic way
She responded very enthusiastically to the idea.
She accepted my suggestion enthusiastically.
whole or complete, with nothing missing
Between them they ate an entire cake.
He'd spent the entire journey asleep.
On behalf of the entire school, I would like to put forward a number of suggestions in regard to the improvement of the reception area.
completely
I admit it was entirely my fault.
I'm not entirely convinced it will work.
The company is run almost entirely by middle-aged men.
I would like to do something entirely different before I start to study again.
to give someone the right to do or have something
I'm entitled to apply for citizenship.
Being unemployed entitles you to free medical treatment.
In conclusion, I believe that I am entitled to a partial refund.
to give something a particular title
a lecture entitled "Language, Learning and Literacy"
In June, the club arranged a slide show and talk which was entitled 'Walking In The Black Hills'; this was very informative and the students had lots of tips for hill walking.
something which exists apart from other things
They want the area recognized as a separate political entity.
Even if these qualities are also quite useful in team sports, where the whole team works as an entity, a spirit of co-operation and teamwork is also needed in order to achieve the effective coexistence of all the players of the team.
a door, gate, etc. by which you can enter a building or place
There are two entrances - one at the front and one round the back.
They must have used the back entrance to the building.
I'll meet you at the main entrance.
From my house you can get there by bus. There's a special one, and it'll take you up to the entrance of the park.
the right to enter a place or join an organization
Entrance is free, but you have to pay for your drinks.
If you've got membership, you don't need to pay for entrance. You only pay for the drinks and the food.
when someone comes into or goes into a place, especially in a way that makes people notice them
The whole room went quiet when he made his entrance.
Or, you could imagine yourself prancing about in your Ferrari, Lotus, Lamborghini, basic limousine, whatever, in the heart of the town, going to a party where everybody who is anybody is there, and the means of transportation would be by helicopter or by boat, to avoid traffic and, at the same time, to make an outstanding entrance.
a separate piece of information that is recorded in a book such as a dictionary, or on the Internet
They've updated a lot of the entries on the website.
As his illness progressed, he made fewer entries in his diary.
Later I got my own entry on their Clan-home-page.
the right or ability to come into or go into a place
She was refused entry.
A flock of sheep blocked our entry to the village.
I can't go down that street - there's a 'No entry' sign.
There's free entry to the exhibition for students after 6 pm.
when you join an organization or take part in a competition
Are there lots of exams for entry into the legal profession?
Have you filled in your entry form yet?
You can do anything in this club from football to chess. If you ever come to visit, I could organise an entry form for you.
a piece of work that you do to try to win a competition
There have been a fantastic number of entries for this year's poetry competition.
the winning entries
a flat paper container for a letter
She ripped open the envelope.
Last night I left an envelope in your house.
the air, land and water where people, animals and plants live
We're not doing enough to protect the environment from pollution.
The new road may cause damage to the environment.
The first lesson was enjoyable - we had to talk about the environment.
the conditions that you live or work in and the way that they influence how you feel or how effectively you can work
The office is quite bright and airy - it's a pleasant working environment.
As a parent you try to create a stable home environment.
They need to live in a friendly environment with their relatives and their friends.
relating to the environment
People are becoming far more aware of environmental issues.
As you know, I went to Canada in order to take part in an environmental conference.
someone who tries to protect the natural environment from being damaged
She is a well-known environmentalist.
Others also, especially environmentalists, suggest that we should turn to electric-powered engines which are environmentally friendly, as these air pollutants bring about the thinning of the ozone layer.
in a way that is related to the environment
environmentally damaging chemicals
We need our industries to work in an environmentally responsible way.
All these things were made possible because we have the world's most dedicated and environmentally adaptable government, spearheaded by Lee Kuan Yew decades ago.
not harmful to the environment
environmentally-friendly washing powder
A lot was said about creating more environmentally friendly products.
to imagine something happening, or think that something is likely to happen
The police don't envisage any trouble at the festival.
We envisage the size of the branch to be around 50 people to start with and expect to grow circa 20% a year.
to imagine something happening, or think that something is likely to happen
He envisioned a partnership between business and government.
From the childhood, when you are only a kid, you envision yourself getting married and quite naturally it is a great feeling when you do get married.
to wish that you had something that someone else has
I envy her ability to talk to people she's never met before.
I don't envy you the job of cooking for all those people.
I really envy you, Pete.
the feeling that you wish you had something that someone else has
I watched with envy as she set off for the airport.
Sam, your last letter has filled me with envy.
to be liked and wanted by someone
Her new office was the envy of the whole company.
I enjoy being the envy of my friends as I take it out of its case and show it off.
to wish very much that you had something that another person has
Sam's got a job in the south of France and we're all green with envy!
The more successful players' salary makes the others green with envy.
a single event or group of related events
This latest episode in the fraud scandal has shocked a lot of people.
The drugs, the divorce and the depression - it's an episode in his life that he wants to forget.
This little episode happened when I was seven years old.
one of the single parts into which a story is divided, especially when it is broadcast on the television or radio
I missed the first episode.
I watched the news and one episode of "Friends".
the same in amount, number or size
The sides are of equal length.
One litre is equal to 1.76 imperial pints.
We are a well-mixed class with equal numbers of boys and girls, all about 20 years old.
the same in importance and deserving the same treatment
All people are equal, deserving the same rights as each other.
They've got a long way to go before they achieve equal pay/opportunities for men and women.
Then Napoleon did whatever he wanted to do under the motto of "all animals are equal", which was false.
someone or something that has the same importance as someone or something else and deserves the same treatment
The good thing about having her as a boss is that she treats us all as equals.
We must respect and treat them as our equals.
the right of different groups of people to have a similar social position and receive the same treatment
equality between the sexes
racial/sexual equality
That's why I think people who fight to defend equality are amazing, especially Nelson Mandela because he spent part of his life in jail for that.
fairly and in the same way
Everyone should be treated equally.
In the festival, all the performers were treated equally.
into amounts or parts that are the same size
She shared the money equally between the four children.
The obligations should be divided equally between the members of the group.
to the same degree or level
an equally important question
She did equally well in the competition last year.
I think the choice of a good organization, which can provide good facilities and social conditions, along with good teaching, is equally important.
to consider one thing to be the same as or equal to another thing
Many people equate wealth with happiness.
Because we live in a capitalist world where the notions of good life and happiness are largely, if not solely, equated with material prosperity, to achieve them requires the above listed qualities.
when you show that two amounts are equal using mathematical symbols
In this equation, x = 6.
I would like to address the issue using a very simple equation of economics: Demand = supply.
to provide someone or something with what is needed for a particular purpose
They're raising money to equip the hospital.
The new trains are equipped with all the latest technology.
We were equipped with crampons, ropes, ice axes, gloves, sunglasses and so on.
the set of necessary tools, clothing, etc. for a particular purpose
office/camping/kitchen equipment
electrical equipment
This is a really useful piece of equipment.
You can rent equipment or take your own.
equal in amount, value, importance, or meaning
The UK's Brit Awards are roughly equivalent to the Oscars.
They go to the same school and I daresay that the same percentage of girls does the Abitur (equivalent to the English GCE A level).
something that has the same value, importance, size, or meaning as something else
She won the equivalent of $5 million.
As well as this I have passed the Cambridge First Certificate exam and another exam in Spain which is the equivalent of FCE.
a period of time in history that is special for a particular reason
the Clinton era
the post-war era
They had worked for peace during the long era of conflict.
The fall of the Berlin wall marked the end of an era.
The world is paddling through the era of technology.
to destroy or completely get rid of something such as a social problem or a disease
The government claims to be doing all it can to eradicate corruption.
Homelessness is not going to be eradicated unless we acknowledge that it is not anything else but a symptom of the imperfection of the society in which we live.
If soil, stone, etc. erodes or is eroded, it is gradually damaged and removed by the sea, rain, or wind.
The coastline is slowly being eroded by the sea.
The areas of Sayago - in the Spanish province of Zamora - and Tras-os-Montes, in Portugal, are joined by a natural border: the river Duero and the rocky canyon that has been eroded for millions of years by the action of the water.
to gradually destroy a good quality or situation
Reports of corruption have eroded people's confidence in the police.
Competition can erode a child's confidence.
when soil, stone, etc. is gradually damaged and removed by the sea, rain, or wind
soil/coastal erosion
Deforestation changes the climate and natural ability to stop soil erosion also plays a role here.
when a good quality or situation is gradually destroyed
There has been a gradual erosion of confidence in the government.
For one thing, shopping can cause an erosion in family values. Children now tend to give more importance to material things.
a mistake
He admitted that he'd made an error.
The letter contained a number of typing errors.
Human error has been blamed for the air crash.
The document was destroyed in error by the police.
There are a lot of factual errors in this article.
the amount by which a calculation can be wrong but still produce a good result
a margin of error of 5 percent
It might be true that what is considered to be healthy or unhealthy changes over time, however, as science progresses the margin of error becomes smaller, and experts are then able to have a more accurate and precise say on all matters, including health.
a way of learning the best way to do something by trying different methods
There aren't any instructions with it - it's just a matter of trial and error.
If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
If a volcano erupts, it suddenly throws out smoke, fire, and melted rocks.
The volcano erupted last year.
Earth can easily be seen as a volcano which can suddenly erupt.
moving stairs that take people from one level of a building to another
I'll meet you by the up/down escalator on the second floor.
Shall we use the lift or take the escalator?
The newly decorated section is fairly modern in style with escalators and touch-screen ticket machines.
to succeed in getting away from a place where you do not want to be
The two prisoners escaped from prison last night.
There were reports that a lion had escaped from its cage at a nearby zoo.
You also get to meet people there, interesting people - for example, I met a really weird guy who claims to have escaped from an asylum, twice!
to avoid a dangerous or unpleasant situation
She was lucky to escape serious injury.
Chelsea only just escaped defeat in the second round of the cup.
Happily they were found by some hunters and escaped with minor injuries.
If something such as a name escapes you, you cannot remember it.
The name of her book escapes me at the moment.
My first teacher was an elderly woman (her name escapes me now), who had worked in that school for many years.
If something escapes your notice or attention, you do not notice or see it.
Nothing that goes on in this office escapes her attention.
It has hardly escaped the attention of anyone that the football World Cup is coming up, and it seems that virtually everybody has something to say about this event or about international sports competitions in general.
something that helps you to forget about your usual life or problems
I love old movies - they're such an escape from the real world.
Going on holiday is a great idea and I think it's the best way to relax and have fun, but it would also be an escape from the daily routine and a break from your tiring job.
when someone succeeds in getting out of a place or a dangerous or bad situation
He made his escape on the back of a motorbike.
an escape route
Being impatient in the jail, Tom planned for his escape.
If you have a narrow escape, you only just avoid danger.
He had a narrow escape when a falling tree crushed his car.
Ralph will have a narrow escape: he is saved by the arrival of a ship which has at last come to rescue them all.
very much or particularly
She's not especially interested in sport.
I chose this especially for your new house.
I loved the show, especially the dancing.
I like sports, especially playing basketball.
for one particular person, purpose, or reason
I cooked this meal especially for you.
I remember the taste of the pineapple cake that you baked especially for me and your home-made gooseberry wine.
a short piece of writing about a particular subject, especially one done by students
For homework I want you to write an essay on endangered species.
I could write an extra essay.
the basic or most important idea or quality of something
The essence of his argument is that we should not eat meat.
But growth is in the essence of every living being, and it is a part of the educational process, as the child grows older, that parents learn to "let go".
used to emphasize the most important idea or quality of something
In essence, its purpose is to contain information.
In essence, homelessness means that you don't have a home and because of this you are living on the streets.
very important and necessary
Government support will be essential if the project is to succeed.
Computers are an essential part of our lives.
Water is essential for/to living things.
It is essential that our prices remain competitive.
For the experiment to be valid, it is essential to record the data accurately.
Well, thirdly, rest is essential!
the most basic and important
There's one essential point I think you've forgotten.
There is an essential difference between Germans from Germany and native Germans from abroad.
relating to the most important characteristics or ideas of something
It's essentially a dictionary but it differs in one or two respects.
What he's saying is essentially true.
Although we are essentially a rock band, we integrate elements of traditional Indian music (such as sitar).
to start a company or organization that is likely to continue for a long time
The brewery was established in 1822.
The first restaurant, which was established 10 years ago, is called Paris.
to start having a relationship or communicating with another person, company, country, or organization
The two countries have only recently established diplomatic relations.
As everyone knows, English is called "the universal language", which is used in all the airports of the world, to establish communication between the airports and the planes that arrive from all over the world.
to put someone or something into a successful and lasting position
He quickly established himself as a talented actor.
In fact, after ending his career as a football player, Pele managed to establish himself as a successful businessman.
to decide something
Our first step must be to establish priorities for the weeks ahead.
As well as this, parents have to establish clear guidelines in relation to expenditure.
to find out information or prove something
The police are trying to establish how he died.
In summary, it is difficult to establish how people choose to buy what they buy.
a business or other organization, or the place where an organization operates
an educational/religious establishment
Even if you do not enjoy novel eating experiences, this establishment is worth a visit due to its architecture and atmosphere.
when an organization, school, business, etc. is started
the establishment of a new national bank
That explains the establishment of various fast-food restaurants in our countries, which spread in an incredibly quick way, and have changed our eating habits in a short time.
a large area of land in the country which is owned by a family or an organization and is often used for growing crops or raising animals
a country estate
There is a special law in Sweden which allows everyone to wander through any private estate unless one causes harm.
a group of houses or factories built in a planned way
a housing estate
an industrial estate
I live on a big housing estate.
to guess the cost, size, value, etc. of something
Government sources estimate a long-term 50% increase in rail fares.
They estimate that the journey will take at least two weeks.
It was difficult to estimate how many trees had been destroyed.
The number of dead is estimated at over three hundred.
I estimate it will take only 7 minutes to walk from the conference center to the hotel.
a guess of what the size, value, amount, cost, etc. of something might be
The number of people who applied for the course was 120 compared with an initial estimate of between 50 and 100.
This is only a rough estimate.
guessed
an estimated cost/value
My estimated time of arrival at Heathrow airport is nine o'clock in the morning and my flight number is OK 1312.
ideas and beliefs about what type of behaviour is morally right and wrong
a code of ethics
the ethics of genetic engineering
By experiencing difficult situations in life, they become wiser and they never forget their values and ethics.
a belief or idea that influences the way you think or behave
He has a very strong work ethic.
Though I am no longer a believer, I agree with the whole religious ethic, and I shall transmit it to my children.
relating to what is right or wrong
The book raises some serious ethical questions.
In spite of this, I am not in favour of euthanasia and I even think that mercy killing holds severe ethical problems.
morally correct and good
He dealt with this case in a completely professional and ethical manner.
It's not so much a problem of funds now, for I and my husband earn our living easily, but the question of how to bring across those moral and ethical values I believe in, namely reliability, honesty, self-confidence, to a certain degree endurance and discipline, paired with friendly and polite manners.
relating to a particular race of people
ethnic minorities
Over 98% of the population are ethnic Chinese.
the unit of money used in most European Union countries; €
Most hotels are priced between a hundred and two hundred euros a night.
The price is 50 euro.
to consider or study something carefully and decide how good or bad it is
We need time to evaluate the proposal.
The aim of this report is to evaluate and describe how successful our College Film Club has been so far.
the act of considering something carefully and deciding how good or bad it is
There was no evaluation of the risks involved.
She carried out an evaluation of their services.
And that is what counts in the evaluation of job candidates.
used to emphasize something that is surprising
Everyone danced - even Mick.
It's a very difficult job - it might even take a year to finish it.
You were the only one who wasn't there, even Marcelo was there!
used to emphasize a comparison
Her last film was even better.
The next 36 hours will be even colder, with snow showers just about everywhere.
I think Alex is going to be even taller than his father.
It's even more difficult to find work.
When I saw her getting off the train I really was close to breaking down because she looked even more beautiful.
used to emphasize the fact that something does not happen or is not true
"I never cry." "Not even when you hurt yourself really badly?"
Nobody spoke, not even the children.
We tried to fish, but didn't catch a thing, not even a shoe!
whether or not
Even if you take a taxi, you'll still miss your train.
I often go to parks, with or without the children, even if the weather is not good.
although
Even though he left school at 16, he still managed to become a millionaire.
He still smokes even though he's got asthma.
They didn't give up hope even though they were tired and wet to the bone.
used to emphasize that something surprising is true despite what you have just said
Car prices have gone down a lot, but even so, we couldn't afford to buy one.
I'm sure many of these things happened due to bad luck, but even so, there are some arrangements that, I believe, can easily be improved.
to not make money but also not lose money
The company only managed to break even this year.
Company C does not seem to be doing well. In the year 2000, it just seems to be breaking even.
the part of the day between the afternoon and the night
I'm working late this evening.
In the evenings, I like to relax.
What are you doing tomorrow evening?
We usually go to the cinema on Friday evenings.
I work in a restaurant and only get one evening off a week.
She watches TV every evening.
something that happens, especially something important or unusual
Local people have been shocked by recent events in the town.
The police are trying to determine the series of events that led up to the murder.
I like this book because I like the description of historical events.
a race, party, competition, etc. that has been organized for a particular time
Over two thousand people took part in the event.
They stage big sporting events here.
They organize a lot of social events.
When there are parties or important social events, I usually choose a dress to wear.
if something happens
An airbag could save your life in the event of an accident.
In the event of bad weather, it would be wise to plan an alternative to the boat trip, for example a visit of Buckingham Palace or the Houses of Parliament.
whatever happens
I'm not sure if I'm coming on Friday, but in any event, I'll see you next week.
In any event, it is incumbent upon all of us to carefully plan our travel matters, so as to take advantage of their several benefits.
the way in which a situation develops, especially a sudden or unexpected change
We were all shocked by this tragic turn of events.
She was not prepared for such an unexpected turn of events!
full of interesting or important events
a very eventful day/journey
She informed me of her exciting and eventful life in London in her letters, which made me decide to follow suit in order to study English.
happening or existing at the end of a process or period of time
the eventual winner of the competition
Finally, the most important consequence - and in some way quite a perverse one - is that setting the island on fire leads to the boys' eventual rescue; so, pure destruction here means catharsis (speaking in terms of drama).
in the end, especially after a long time
Eventually they reached an agreement.
He eventually got round to fixing the bike.
Anyway Pat eventually apologized to me.
at any time
Have you ever been to London?
If you're ever in Cambridge, do give me a ring.
Nothing ever happens here in the evenings.
The smell is worse than ever.
It is the most beautiful place I've ever seen.
almost never
We hardly ever go out these days.
My bedroom hardly ever looks tidy.
continuously since that time
We met at school and have been friends ever since.
He's been depressed ever since he got divorced.
The pen was given to me by my father on my birthday and I have treasured it ever since.
always in the future
I'm not going to live here for ever.
My friend was leaving the city for ever and going to a city in another country.
very
It was ever so kind of you to meet us at the airport.
It was ever so kind of you to take the trouble and make room for us although we arrived quite unexpectedly.
better/faster/happier, etc. than at any time before
She is running faster than ever.
First of all, I would like to thank you for your invitation to the new opening of Longridge Arts Centre, the centre looks better than ever and I enjoyed the arts exhibition that is on now.
a very
She's ever such a good dancer.
The psychiatrist was a very nice young girl that helped me ever such a lot.
always changing/growing/increasing, etc.
We live in an ever-changing world.
In our ever-changing society, in the affluent cities of the Western world, life moves at such a fast pace that parents are the reflection and the result of our times, the cogs of a large, rather uncontrollable wheel.
each one of a group of people or things
Every time I go to London I get caught in a traffic jam.
Ten pence is donated to charity for every bottle sold.
She ate up every bit of her fish.
Every shop says Merry Xmas in front of the shop.
used to show that something is repeated regularly
He goes to Ireland every summer.
Computers can perform millions of calculations every second.
Every four minutes a car is stolen in this city.
Every few kilometres we passed a burnt out truck at the side of the road.
The conference takes place every other/second year.
She cooks every afternoon.
as much as is possible
I'd like to wish you every success in your new job.
She has every reason to be unhappy after losing her job and her home.
You had every opportunity to make a complaint.
Every effort is being made to minimise civilian casualties.
She has every right to be proud of her tremendous achievements.
The man realized that people should take every opportunity that life offers them, because all we are is dust in the wind.
sometimes, but not often
We still meet up every now and then.
Each day choose 10 new words and learn them by heart. In a week you will have learned 70 new words, and in a year 3640, a lot of words. Please, do not forget to repeat them every now and then.
sometimes, but not often
He went into town every so often to buy supplies.
Elizabeth and others visited her every so often until one day she left them.
happening one day/week, etc. but not the next
Alice goes to the gym every other day.
The rubbish is collected every other day, which is quite often.
every person
Everybody thought it was a good idea.
I've received replies from everybody but Jane.
Goodbye, everybody - see you next week.
I'm sorry, but you'll just have to wait your turn like everybody else.
I was so happy, because everybody had a good time.
every person
Everyone agreed with me.
Everyone involved in the accident has been questioned by the police.
Would everyone who wishes to attend the dinner let me know by Friday afternoon?
I had dressed up but everyone else was wearing jeans.
Almost everyone went to the party.
all things
The thieves took everything.
You can't blame him for everything.
Everything looks so much nicer in the sunshine.
Is everything all right, Angela?
The fish wasn't very fresh, but everything else tasted good.
We have to bring a pencil, they'll give us everything else we need.
to be the most important part of someone's life
His children mean everything to him.
Money isn't everything.
I think that every person has a different opinion, but for me, money and fame isn't everything in life.
to do everything that you are able and allowed to do in order to achieve something
I've done everything in my power to help him.
I think of myself as an open-minded and cheerful person and if I get the job I will do everything in my power to make sure your visitors will have a great time at the theme park.
in or to every place
I looked everywhere for my keys.
Everywhere I look I see things that remind me of Brendan.
We had to stay in a hotel outside the town as everywhere else was fully booked.
I love the teddy bear because it's soft and I can take it with me everywhere.
something that makes you believe that something is true or exists
evidence of global warming
There is no evidence that the theory is true.
New evidence suggests/shows this argument is flawed.
There is scientific evidence that the drug is addictive.
All the evidence points to a substantial rise in traffic over the next few years.
There is growing/increasing evidence that people whose diets are rich in vitamins are less likely to develop some types of cancer.
David started looking for evidence, but he found nothing.
information that is given or objects that are shown in a court of law to help to prove if someone has committed a crime
He was arrested despite the lack of evidence against him.
My new neighbour murdered his wife and although the circumstantial evidence against him was enormous, the case was dismissed because of the lack of some clinching piece of evidence.
obvious to everyone and easy to see or understand
The full extent of the damage only became evident the following morning.
From the smell it was evident that the drains had been blocked for several days.
In conclusion, it is evident that it is better to do shopping in big supermarkets or shopping centres than small local shops in terms of time, money, working hours and family life.
in a way that is easy to see
He evidently likes her.
There are, evidently, points in favour and points against.
very cruel, bad or harmful
an evil monster
These people are just evil.
She is a very dark and evil person who can't forget the first Mrs. de Winter.
something that is very bad and harmful
Drug-addiction is one of today's great social evils.
The theme of the play is the battle between good and evil.
It is not simply the confronting of good and evil.
the way in which living things change and develop over millions of years
Darwin's theory of evolution
I think it is good to have zoos, but we shouldn't try to control natural evolution as we have done until now.
a gradual process of change and development
the evolution of language
Leonardo's studies and projects on mechanics puzzle us and foresee the future evolution of science and technology.
to develop or make something develop, usually gradually
rapidly evolving technology
This device has evolved from being a large machine into the size of a notebook.
completely correct in every detail
The exact distance is 1.838 metres.
I'm afraid I can't give you exact details.
The exact location of the factory has yet to be decided.
They've lived here a long time - 25 years to be exact.
I am looking forward to your next letter to know the exact time of your arrival.
used when you are giving or asking for information that is completely correct
The journey took exactly three hours.
Where are you staying exactly?
I don't know exactly what time I'll arrive.
used to emphasize what you are saying
I've found some shoes that are exactly the same colour as that dress.
Do exactly what I tell you and no-one will get hurt!
That's exactly why I didn't go.
That is exactly one of the reasons why I decided to join a new English class.
something you say when you agree completely with someone
"Surely they should have told us about this problem sooner?" "Exactly!"
used to say that something is not completely true
"So you gave her your book?" "Not exactly, I lent it to her."
used to emphasize that someone or something does not have a particular quality
Let's face it, we're not exactly rich, are we?
The Hotel Royal was not exactly luxurious.
to make something seem larger, better, worse, etc. than it really is
Don't exaggerate - it didn't cost that much!
Without exaggerating, I would like to mention that she is dependable and trustworthy but also tactful and supportive.
when you describe something as larger, better, worse, etc. than it really is
a slight/gross exaggeration of the facts
You wrote about "a sudden downpour of rain" which was a huge exaggeration.
an official test of how much you know about something, or how well you can do something
How many pupils are sitting/taking the geography exam this term?
I failed my physics exam, but I passed chemistry.
exam papers
exam results
I will take my exam on December 8.
an exam
a written examination
We try to improve our English, because we must pass the P.E.T. examination to complete our studies.
when someone looks at or considers something carefully in order to discover something
a medical examination
I had to have a medical examination when I started my new job.
The evidence is still under examination.
I thought it was paint at first, but on closer examination I realised it was dried blood.
Finally we went to the hospital for a medical examination and fortunately we were all right.
to look at or consider a person or thing carefully and in detail in order to discover something about them
She picked up the knife and examined it closely.
He was examined by a doctor as soon as he arrived.
Experts are examining the wreckage for clues about the cause of the explosion.
I examined both of them and finally I discovered that it was a virus changed genetically in order to kill people.
to test someone to see how much they know or how well they can do something
You'll be examined in three main areas: speaking, listening, and reading comprehension.
Be prepared, not only in the areas you will be examined in.
someone who tests how much you know about something, or how well you can do something
The writing paper is marked by trained examiners.
When the examiner said that I had passed, I could not believe it.
something which is typical of the group of things that is being talked about
This painting here is a marvellous example of her work.
Could you give me an example of the improvements you have mentioned?
This is a very good/typical example of medieval Chinese architecture.
Look at the example before you do the exercise.
I like rap music, one example of that is El Santo.
used to give an example of the type of thing you mean
I like soft fruit, for example peaches and plums.
Some people, students for example, can get cheaper tickets.
Also he likes to do sports, for example swimming and cycling.
to do something in a good way so that other people might try to copy you
Try to set a good example to the children.
It sets a good example for other museums.
someone or something that is very good and should be copied
He is a very good example to the rest of the class.
You are a shining example for your colleagues.
a very good example of something
This is a prime example of what happens when communication is poor.
In this context in the analyses of Piggy's character, it strikes me as a first spontaneous impression that he personifies the typical proper schoolboy who will later on undoubtedly grow up to be the prime example of a good and responsible citizen.
to be more than a particular number or amount
Sales have exceeded $1 million so far this year.
Our administration costs didn't exceed 5%, the other 10% were the pure costs of the entertainment.
to be much bigger or better than expected
The location of the apartment exceeded our expectations.
They might exceed our expectations with the top-quality cuisine, which is fine as long as it is value for money; we don't want an unaffordable canteen.
to drive faster than you are allowed to according to the law
She was caught exceeding the speed limit.
There are three ground rules you have to follow: stop at stop-signs, don't exceed the speed limit and don't be in the way of other cars.
to be very good at something
Paula always excelled in languages at school.
If a school is successful, it will provide opportunities for the child to excel in other areas such as the creative arts, like music, dance, painting and drama, and also sports.
to do something better than you usually do
The British team have excelled themselves this year to reach the finals.
As far as the acting is concerned, the interaction between the lead actors is amazing while Catherine Zeta Jones excels herself in the highly demanding role of the client.
extremely good
The food was excellent.
Her car is in excellent condition.
The fall in interest rates is excellent news for borrowers.
I had an excellent supper and danced with Nat.
not including a particular fact, thing or person
The museum is open daily except Mondays.
It's cool and quiet everywhere except in the kitchen.
Everyone was there except for Sally.
All of my friends came except you.
used to give a reason why something is not possible or true
I want to go, except that I'm tired.
She would have passed the exam, except that she was ill on the day.
someone or something that is not included in a rule, group or list or that does not behave in the expected way
There are exceptions to every rule.
I like all kinds of films with the exception of horror films.
Her books are always entertaining and this one is no exception.
You must report here every Tuesday without exception.
The animals looked so sad to me. So I decided to set them free, all of them, without exception.
to not treat someone or something according to the usual rules
They don't usually take cheques, but they said they'd make an exception in my case.
Unfortunately, they were not flexible enough to make an exception, but on the other hand we know about the problem now and can avoid it in the future.
to be annoyed or insulted by something
He took exception to being asked to sweep the floor.
I hope you will not take exception to my words, but I think that this course of action is rather foolish and illogical.
extremely good
He really is an exceptional student.
This trip constitutes an exceptional challenge for me.
very unusual and not likely to happen very often
Visitors are only allowed in exceptional circumstances.
However, there are always some exceptional circumstances in which they fail to understand what is appropriate for them.
extremely
an exceptionally gifted student
Jacky Chan is an exceptionally hardworking person who won't let anything bring him down and he has a great sense of humour which is why most people like him.
more of something than is usual or needed
An excess of oil on the markets has caused prices to fall sharply.
He earns in excess of £60,000 a year.
We should change our behaviour and buy what we need and not in excess, giving the children a pattern to follow.
to do something too much
He occasionally has a beer, but he never drinks to excess.
We eat and drink to excess only to face the consequences later on.
more than is usual or allowed
We had to pay £100 for excess baggage.
Most students feel that they need to get rid of excess energy at the end of the day and also convey that they are hampered by the fact that not enough sports facilities are available.
more than is necessary or wanted
They accused the police of using excessive force.
On the other hand the excessive use of mobile telephones has given us the excuse to decrease our face to face contact.
when you give something to someone and they give you something else
an exchange of ideas/information
They were given food and shelter in exchange for work.
So, it was a very interesting exchange of ideas.
an arrangement by which students and teachers from one country go to stay with students and teachers in another country
Are you going on the French exchange this year?
His name is Rob and, like me, he applied to the student exchange program.
to give something to someone and receive something similar from them
It's traditional for the two teams to exchange shirts after the game.
We exchanged addresses and telephone numbers.
She moved to another part of town and we forgot to exchange our addresses.
to take something back to the shop where you bought it and change it for something else
Goods can only be exchanged on production of the original receipt.
Could I exchange this shirt for a larger size?
If two people exchange looks, opinions, views, etc., they look at each other, talk to each other, etc.
The group meets every month to exchange their views on a book they have all read.
You can exchange opinions with them as to the way of life in Japan and your country.
the rate at which the money of one country can be changed for the money of another country
The Money Ready Reckoner gives the exchange rate for any country you plan to visit and shows how much currency you will get.
I looked around and saw a shop with the notice "Currency exchange". I decided to go in to find out the exchange rate.
feeling very happy and enthusiastic
Are you getting excited about your holiday?
An excited crowd waited for the singer to arrive.
I am very excited!
in an excited way
She ran excitedly down the hall to greet her cousins.
We talked excitedly about it all the way home.
when people feel very happy and enthusiastic
The competition is causing a lot of excitement.
If you want excitement, you should try parachuting.
However, if you are looking for fun and excitement, I would go for the city.
making you feel very happy and enthusiastic
an exciting film/match
You're going to Africa? How exciting!
I enjoyed the game very much, because it was very exciting.
to say something suddenly and loudly because you are surprised, annoyed, excited, etc.
"How terrible!" she exclaimed.
Then he would exclaim, "What a wonderful selection," with a robust laugh.
a punctuation mark (!) used at the end of a sentence that expresses surprise, excitement or shock
Her emails are full of exclamation marks.
The day was wonderful as I got two A's with an exclamation mark.
to not allow someone or something to take part in an activity or enter a place
Women are still excluded from the club.
Sometimes the range of sports offered is small and they feel excluded from some sports because they are not fit enough or the sport is too violent.
to intentionally not include something
The insurance cover excludes particular medical conditions.
Thus, excluding the cost of organising the day, we were able to give 85% of what we earned to the hospital.
expensive and only for people who are rich or of a high social class
an exclusive club/hotel/shop
an exclusive part of town
We can also discern sophisticated, exclusive shops with expensive clothes in the city centres.
not shared with another person, organization, newspaper, etc.
an exclusive interview
They don't have a personal life anymore because of this and photographers are following them everywhere because they want to take an exclusive picture, so they can earn a lot of money with it when a magazine wants to buy it.
not including something
The price of the meal is exclusive of drinks.
Preferred areas are mainly in North, North West, South East and South West London with a budget of £800 per month exclusive of Council Tax and Bills.
only
an exclusively female audience
In addition, the reduced price mentioned refers exclusively to UK students, which caused significant problems.
used to politely get someone's attention
Excuse me, does this bus go to Oxford Street?
While I was waiting for my fast food, someone knocked my shoulder. I turned and saw a girl about my age. I asked: - Excuse me, did you call me?
used to say sorry for something that you do without intending to
Oh, excuse me, did I take your seat?
Excuse me, I'm going to miss the English class tomorrow.
to forgive someone
Please excuse me for arriving late - the bus was delayed.
Please excuse my appearance - I've been painting.
I hope you'll excuse me now, I have to do my homework.
to be given as a reason for someone's bad behaviour, so that it does not seem so bad
Nothing can excuse that sort of behaviour.
Their main goals are to save the animals and/or to show the animals to the public in order to make us take an interest in the animals and in ecology. I think that these purposes can excuse the fact that the animals are locked up, if they have enough space and are treated very well.
a reason that you give to explain why you did something wrong
What was his excuse for being late?
He'd better have a good excuse for not being here!
I've never known him to miss a meeting - I'm sure he'll have an excuse.
There's no excuse for that sort of behaviour.
I had no excuse to give for being late with this report.
a false reason that you give to explain why you do something
Nick was just looking for an excuse to call her.
Any excuse for a holiday!
Also shopping for clothes is an excuse to go out with girls!!
to kill someone as a legal punishment
He was executed for murder.
She might even have had some cruel aspects in her personality for she did not hesitate to execute traitors.
to do something, such as follow a plan or order
to execute a deal/plan
When he controls the work of the other staff members, he wants to find out whether they executed their duties perfectly.
relating to making decisions and managing businesses
an executive director
So I am now an executive director, I have a job and I know very important people in the Romanian Government.
someone who has an important job in a business
a company executive
The main reason why I attended this conference was to learn how international companies select their employees and how I could improve my qualifications as a finance executive.
to be or give a typical example of something
This painting perfectly exemplifies the naturalistic style which was so popular at the time.
Okonkwo serves to exemplify to the reader the consequences that the Igbo people were suffering.
physical activity that you do to make your body strong and healthy
You really should take more exercise.
Swimming is my favourite form of exercise.
I do stomach exercises most days.
I can also take some exercise with the bicycle.
a short piece of written work which you do to practise something you are learning
The book has exercises at the end of every chapter.
It's a new book and it has all the necessary exercises for secondary school.
a set of actions that a group of soldiers do to practise their skills
The cadets are out on military exercises.
I am not opposed to military exercises, but such a noisy activity cannot be tolerated in a world in which environmental protection should be promoted by everybody, including the army.
to do physical activities to make your body strong and healthy
She exercises most evenings, usually by running.
A work-out in the gym will exercise all the major muscle groups.
It's funny how I heard about that; I was at the gym with Sarah, we were exercising when we heard Tom talking about it with John.
to use a power, right, or ability
You should always exercise your right to vote.
However, if you believe that nothing can be done, I have to inform you that we will exercise our legal rights and take action against you.
to make someone very tired
The long journey exhausted the children.
I think that the students were expecting to be given a job that would actually improve their English and not just exhaust them physically.
the waste gas from a vehicle's engine
exhaust fumes
Therefore, it might cause a great deal of pollution because of exhaust fumes.
(exhaust pipe) the pipe that waste gas from a vehicle's engine flows through
The car needs a new exhaust.
There are traffic jams and it becomes a real hell to drive or simply to walk (because of the noise and pollution of exhaust pipes).
extremely tired
By the time they reached the summit they were exhausted.
Exhausted, they fell asleep.
When we got back home I was absolutely exhausted.
making you feel extremely tired
I've had an exhausting day.
We will also have the opportunity to drink a coffee or have a snack after an exhausting day in the swimming pool!!
when you are extremely tired
She felt ill with exhaustion.
The tennis star is said to be suffering from exhaustion.
Eighty kilometres is a pretty long distance and there is a threat that our trip would turn out to be a gruelling experience because of physical exhaustion.
complete and including everything
an exhaustive account of the incident
I think this report is exhaustive and that we can rely on this institution, should other colleagues be sent on a similar course there.
to show objects such as paintings to the public
She's exhibiting her roses at the local flower show.
One of the most important pictures of Van Gogh will be exhibited at the London Museum during the summer holidays.
to show a feeling, quality, or ability
The crew exhibited great courage when the plane crashed.
I consider my father a successful man because he exhibits all the qualities I've mentioned above.
an object such as a painting that is shown to the public
a museum exhibit
Apart from that, there are English-speaking tourist guides in museums and historical sites, so that visitors can enjoy them and understand what the exhibits are.
when objects such as paintings are shown to the public
to see/visit an exhibition
an exhibition centre
There's a new exhibition of sculpture on at the city gallery.
We went to the Royal Academy to see the Kandinsky exhibition.
when someone has to leave their home and live in another country, often for political reasons
He spent the war years in exile in New York.
The King was forced into exile.
In the exhibition I would like to depict the years he has spent in exile in India, a neighbouring country of Tibet.
to be present or real
Poverty still exists in this country.
Ghosts don't exist anyway.
Buses will not exist any more and everyone will have his own car and his own computer too.
to live in difficult conditions
You can't exist without water for more than a week.
It's hard to exist without water, so there were long queues to our local wells.
when something or someone exists
Many people question the existence of God.
According to modern cosmology, the Universe came into existence about fifteen billion years ago.
The theatre company that they started is still in existence today.
The book gives explanations about all these popular beliefs about ghosts and their supposed existence among living people.
a particular way of life
We could have a much more peaceful existence in the countryside.
People from all over the world emigrated to the fifth continent and it was believed that they would have a better existence there.
describes something that exists now
The existing church was built in the sixteenth century.
The existing laws are inadequate.
The computer upgraded most of the existing inventions, and made them more efficient, faster and more user-friendly.
the door or gate which you use to leave a public building or place
a fire exit
an emergency exit
the main exit
I'll meet you tonight at the exit of Wood Green station.
a road which you use to leave a motorway or roundabout
Take the third exit at the next roundabout.
You should take the motorway from Palermo to Mazzara and take the third exit.
to stop using a program on a computer
Press escape to exit the game.
unusual, interesting and often foreign
exotic flowers/fruits
Even if you do not have any cooking skills you can enjoy exotic meals.
to increase in size or amount, or to make something increase in this way
The air in the balloon expands when heated.
They expanded their retail operations during the 1980s.
I would like to expand my library.
when something increases in size or amount
These years saw the rapid expansion of the software industry.
More effective ways include the construction of bridges in heavy traffic areas and the expansion of METRO to even more areas of Athens.
to think or believe that something will happen
We are expecting a lot of applicants for the job.
I expect (that) she'll be very angry.
He didn't expect to see me.
I expect that it is going to be sunny because in the hotel there is a swimming-pool.
to be waiting for someone or something to arrive
I'm expecting a letter from my sister.
I wasn't expecting any message.
to think that someone should behave in a particular way or do a particular thing
You will be expected to work some weekends.
You have to satisfy your boss but you do not have to do more than you are expected to.
used to show that you think something is likely to be true
I expect Isabel's told you about me?
"Will you be coming to the party?" "I expect so."
to be going to have a baby
I'm expecting our first baby in May.
When I was nine or ten years old, my mother was expecting a baby.
when you expect good things to happen in the future
The holiday lived up to all our expectations.
I have high expectations for this job.
We did so well - beyond all our expectations.
The talks given by writers were up to my expectations and it was a pleasure to attend all of them.
to be much bigger or better than expected
The location of the apartment exceeded our expectations.
They might exceed our expectations with the top-quality cuisine, which is fine as long as it is value for money; we don't want an unaffordable canteen.
thought likely to happen or be true
The expected power cuts never happened.
I went into the theatre on time but became a little bit angry at having to wait until 20:15, forty-five minutes after the expected starting time.
an organized journey, especially a long one for a particular purpose
Shackleton led several expeditions in the Antarctic.
I was with my father on Mount Tahan and I had the best time of my life during this expedition.
the total amount of money that a government or person spends
The government's annual expenditure on arms has been reduced.
First of all, and it is the most obvious solution, government expenditure on subsidies for the homeless should increase.
the money that you spend on something
Buying a bigger car has proved to be well worth the expense.
We've just had a new garage built at great expense.
It's silly to go to the expense of buying new clothes when you don't really need them.
You have to pay/cover your own medical expenses.
We couldn't afford the expense of a new car at that time.
If you do one thing at the expense of another, doing the first thing harms the second thing.
He spent a lot of time at work, at the expense of his marriage.
Unfortunately one is usually done at the expense of the other.
in order to make someone look stupid
Stop making jokes at my expense.
But despite his intellectual superiority, Piggy was subject to derision because of his physical outward appearance and the group of boys played jokes at his expense.
money that you spend when you are doing your job, that your employer will pay back to you
travel expenses
They pay us two hundred pounds a week, plus expenses.
They actually helped me a lot with relocation and even reimbursed my travel expenses.
costing a lot of money
expensive jewellery
He buys very expensive clothes.
It's expensive to run a car.
She has expensive tastes.
My mother bought the glass for me last year and it's very expensive.
knowledge that you get from doing a job, or from doing, seeing, or feeling something
She has a lot of teaching experience.
You become more confident in your work as you get more experience.
Do you have any experience of working with children?
I know from experience that you can't trust him.
In my experience, people smile back if you smile at them.
I believe as I get more experience, I will be converted to an international basketball player.
something that happens to you that affects how you feel
I had a rather unpleasant experience at the dentist's.
My trip to Australia was an experience I shall never forget.
It was a great experience, we talked for 3 hours about lots of things.
If you experience something, it happens to you, or you feel it.
We experienced a lot of difficulty in selling our house.
It was the worst pain I'd ever experienced.
We had three fantastic days - the best we have ever experienced.
having skill or knowledge because you have done something many times
an experienced teacher
She is very experienced in marketing.
You can go to the nearest village, where you can do a mountain walk led by experienced guides.
a test, especially a scientific one, that you do in order to learn something or to discover whether something is true
Some people believe that experiments on animals should be banned.
Scientists are carrying out/doing experiments to test the effectiveness of the new drug.
In the chemistry lab experiments are often set up.
to try something in order to discover what it is like
Did he ever experiment with drugs?
Last year I started to take a lot of black and white photos and I wanted to follow the process all the way through so I bought an enlarger. I was now able to experiment with all sorts of techniques.
to do an experiment
Experimenting on mice can give us an idea of the effect of the disease in humans.
Firstly, scientists are the best contributors for a better world around us being smarter and hard-working, gaining knowledge and experimenting in laboratories.
relating to tests, especially scientific ones
The two scientists used very different experimental methods.
But in my opinion this is no excuse to discard the findings of numerous well-educated nutritionists and food specialists who devote long hours to researching the eating habits of the people of the world, who sift through data from times gone by to find out about our predecessors' habits and who build and test hypotheses in strictly controlled experimental conditions.
someone who has a lot of skill in something or a lot of knowledge of something
a computer/gardening/medical expert
He's an expert on Japanese literature.
My "personal" trainer is Peter, he is a real expert in running.
having or showing a lot of knowledge or skill
The centre provides expert advice for people with financial problems.
What's your expert opinion?
We're not expert cyclists and we could get tired before we get to the Mountain Hostel.
If a legal document or agreement expires, you can no longer use it.
Your contract expired six months ago.
My rental contract expired last month and I wanted to find a bigger place, which I am delighted to say I did.
to make something clear or easy to understand by giving reasons for it or details about it
If there's anything you don't understand, I'll be happy to explain.
The teacher explained the rules to the children.
Our guide explained where the cathedral was.
He explained how the machine worked.
Please could you explain why you're so late.
She explained that she was going to stay with her sister.
No one has been able to explain the accident.
We have to explain the information to our friends.
the details or reasons that someone gives to make something clear or easy to understand
What was her explanation for why she was late?
Could you give me a quick explanation of how it works?
There must be some kind of explanation.
clear and exact
She was very explicit about her plans.
He made no explicit references to Tess.
Rules have to be explicit and well explained so that they can be strictly followed.
showing or talking about sex or violence in a very detailed way
an explicit film
One is not supposed to watch explicit movies under the age of 16 nor drink alcohol under the age of 18.
If something such as a bomb explodes, it bursts with noise and force, and if you explode it, you make it burst with noise and force.
A bomb exploded at one of London's busiest railway stations this morning.
He was driving so fast that his car tyre exploded.
A bomb had exploded and that boy rescued me from the accident.
to treat someone unfairly for your own advantage
Laws exist to stop companies exploiting their employees.
I suppose those people are often exploited and do not have real friends with whom they can share feelings and emotions. Therefore I believe being a famous person is also synonymous with being lonely.
to use or develop something to your advantage
We need to make sure that we exploit our resources as fully as possible.
John would certainly exploit this unique opportunity and meet the interviewer's expectations easily.
a journey to a place to find out about something
Livingstone was the first European to make an exploration of the Zambesi river.
She's always loved travel and exploration.
In the near future robots will take part in space exploration, as well as ocean exploration.
to go around a place where you have never been in order to find out what is there
The best way to explore the countryside is on foot.
The children have gone exploring in the woods.
You can walk and explore in the jungle.
to find out more about something, often something that you might do in the future
We're exploring the possibility of buying a holiday home.
It is a great camera and I still have not explored all the possibilities it holds.
when something such as a bomb explodes
Forty people were killed in the explosion.
The fire was thought to have been caused by a gas explosion.
I was doing my homework when I heard an explosion.
when something increases suddenly by a large amount
the recent population explosion
The factors leading to this population explosion in cities of the world might vary from country to country and city to city, but there is one common demominator - the quest for a better life.
An explosive substance or piece of equipment can cause explosions.
The explosive device was hidden in a suitcase.
an explosive mixture of oil vapour and oxygen
The small piece of an explosive material caused chaos in the streets of London.
An explosive situation or subject causes strong feelings, and may make people angry or violent.
a highly explosive political issue
Moreover, there are some explosive issues that give them food for thought, such as the environmental pollution, and the poverty.
a substance or piece of equipment that can cause explosions
He was caught smuggling explosives into the building.
It was in this background of events that Riyaz Mohammed drove a van loaded with a thousand kilos of explosives into the US embassy compound in Nairobi, Kenya, causing the deaths of hundreds of Kenyans and dozens of American citizens.
to send goods to another country for sale
French cheeses are exported to many different countries.
Our clothes sell so well in this country that we have no need to export.
And of course, while Italy is exporting pizza, spaghetti and food like that, Italian people are able to try different food from foreign countries, like hamburgers, Chinese food, or pudding.
a product that you sell in another country or the business of selling products in another country
Coffee is one of Brazil's main exports.
The export of ivory is now strictly controlled.
India grows tea for export.
We are planning to develop our export market.
At present I work for a Multinational company as export officer.
to make public something bad or dishonest
The review exposed widespread corruption in the police force.
The newspaper story exposed him as a liar.
If I do not receive full satisfaction, I will expose your operation by writing to the newspaper.
to experience something or be affected by something because you are in a particular situation or place
It was the first time I'd been exposed to violence.
Also, with television, we might be exposed to violence in some films and advertisements, which does not happen if we read a book.
when someone experiences something or is affected by it because they are in a particular situation or place
There is a risk of exposure to radiation.
Many young children now have exposure to computers in the home.
Due to exposure to low temperatures throughout the tour I developed pneumonia and had to be admitted to hospital on arrival in London.
to show what you think or how you feel using words or actions
I'm simply expressing my opinion.
I would like to express my thanks for your kindness.
I'm sorry, I'm not expressing myself very clearly.
Words can't express how happy I am.
Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing to express my dissatisfaction about the show you presented two weeks ago at your theatre.
a word or phrase
He uses a lot of informal expressions.
'A can of worms' is an expression which means 'a difficult situation'.
With these kinds of videos, they could learn words and expressions used every day by normal people talking to normal people.
the look on someone's face, showing what they feel or think
facial expressions
He had such a sad expression on his face.
I could tell from her expression that something serious had happened.
He had a funny expression on his face.
when you show what you think or how you feel using words or actions
He wrote her a poem as an expression of his love.
We've received a lot of expressions of support for our campaign.
Freedom of expression is a basic human right.
It's better to give expression to your anger, rather than hiding it.
It always thrilled me, the energy and expression this dance had.
showing your feelings
expressive language
a very expressive face
Ann was a beautiful girl with wonderful hair and expressive brown eyes.
very beautiful or perfect
a garden of exquisite flowers
On the forefinger of my left hand they can see the most exquisite diamond ring that they ever did see.
to make something bigger or longer
We have plans to extend our house.
They've extended their range of products.
The existing lighting loop would be extended and the capacity of the illumination would be increased.
to make an activity, agreement, etc. last for a longer time
They have extended the deadline by one week.
A lot of shops have extended their opening hours.
I need to extend my visa.
If we decide to extend our stay for two more days, does the offer still stand?
to continue or stretch over a particular area of land or period of time
a mountain range that extends down the Italian peninsula
Will the building work extend into next week?
extra time that you are given to do or use something
I've applied for an extension to my visa.
a telephone that is connected to the main telephone in an office or other large building
Call me on extension 3104.
For further information call 990-643 extension 93.
something that has developed as a result of something else
The book is an extension of ideas he set out in an earlier article.
So we might say the computer is the extension of our brain.
large in amount or size
Fire had caused extensive damage to the building.
This is probably the most extensive modern art collection in Europe.
The school has extensive grounds.
The motorway was in need of extensive repairs.
Both events received extensive coverage in the newspapers.
You see, this medieval city has an extensive collection of antiques.
the size or importance of something
They are just beginning to realize the full extent of the damage.
Her face was injured to such an extent that we didn't recognize her.
Rosie's teacher was impressed by the extent of her knowledge.
The River Nile is over 6500 kilometres in extent.
For the past couple of decades, TV has been diffused in Japan to such an extent that nowadays, one household is likely to have more than 2 TV sets that show a wide range of programmes nearly 24 hours a day.
mainly
Their anger was to a large extent justified.
As we all know, TV, video and cinema have replaced books to an enormous extent.
in some ways
To some extent, she was responsible for the accident.
I agree with you to a certain extent.
To a certain extent, this point of view seems to be very respectable.
the degree to which something happens or is likely to happen
The research should show the extent to which these changes are being implemented.
Several factors determine the extent to which a person's character may influence our own opinions and even our way of life, such as the time spent with that particular person, or the importance that figure has in our lives.
the outside part of something or someone
The exterior of the house was painted white.
Thus, it is best for the management to improve the look of this building as other buildings in this area have a better looking exterior than ours.
relating to the outside part of something
the external walls of the house
This cream is for external use only.
If you see all this external decoration, you will probably fall in love with this art.
coming from or relating to another country, group, organization, etc.
Most news magazines have a section devoted to external affairs.
All exams are marked by an external examiner.
If a type of animal is extinct, it does not now exist.
These creatures could soon be extinct.
We are destroying the Earth by polluting it and we do not realise this, and the thing is, we will not do so until we have made some species become extinct and we have damaged it all.
when a type of animal no longer exists
Many species of animal are threatened with extinction.
I wholeheartedly suggest that it should be returned to nature and to the turtles, as they face extinction after the loss of their natural home.
more, or more than usual
She babysits to earn a bit of extra cash.
He needs extra help with his English.
The price includes travel and accommodation but meals are extra.
You only have to bring an extra t-shirt.
more
They pay her extra to work nights.
Will there be any special events that cost extra?
something that you can get with something else if you pay a little more money
A sunroof is an optional extra on this model of the car.
The DVD contains many extras.
an actor in a film who does not have a main part and usually plays someone in a crowd
He was an extra in the crowd scene.
A theatre troop at the beginning of a new project is more often than not a flabbergasting rabble of actors, technicians, extras, back-stage workers and so forth.
to remove or take out something
The oil which is extracted from olives is used mainly for cooking.
The tooth was eventually extracted.
I'm really sorry, but I can't come on the day before because I need to have my teeth extracted.
a short part of a book, poem, etc.
They published an extract from his autobiography.
The number of copied and read articles or book extracts has increased steadily.
very
She is, it must be said, extraordinarily beautiful.
Besides, the trip will be extraordinarily helpful for my course at school.
very special, unusual or strange
He told the extraordinary story of his escape.
She was an extraordinary young woman.
On the next day there was an extraordinary thunderstorm!
costing too much, or spending a lot more money than you need to
the extravagant lifestyle of a movie star
In some extreme cases, young people are known to have extravagant lifestyles and wasteful spending habits.
very large in amount or degree
extreme pain/danger/wealth
This time I promise that I will take extreme caution with your things.
the most unusual or the most serious possible
extreme weather conditions
In extreme cases, the disease can lead to blindness.
It seems to be an extreme case but it is a fact that modern children have no more contact with animal life.
having such strong opinions or beliefs that most people cannot agree with you
extreme views
the extreme right/left
Consequently, I can now express my disagreement with both articles, mostly because of the extreme opinions they contain.
very, or much more than usual
They played extremely well.
She's extremely beautiful/intelligent.
The film was extremely funny.
a sport or activity that is exciting and dangerous
I love most extreme sports, such as bungee jumping and white-water rafting.
You can go camping, climb mountains or learn a lot of extreme sports.
someone who has such strong opinions or beliefs that most people cannot agree with them
political/religious extremists
Bearing in mind all these strict rules my children have to follow they seem to be bound to become anarchic extremists.
someone who is very confident and likes being with other people
She is an extrovert.
She is an extrovert, a sociable person, who loves talking to people and is always ready to sacrifice her free time to make them happy.
one of the two organs in your face, which you use to see with
He has no sight in his left/right eye.
She's got beautiful green eyes.
He closed his eyes and went to sleep.
I like her long brown hair and blue eyes.
to be very surprised when you see someone or something
I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw what he was wearing.
Well, this church was extremely simple on the outside, but when I got inside it, I couldn't believe my eyes.
in someone's opinion
In my parents' eyes, I'll always be a child.
To answer your question right away, the boat trip is highly recommendable in my eyes!
to watch or look after someone or something
Could you keep an eye on this pan of soup for a moment?
You have to supply everything they need and keep an eye on them all the time.
to be unable to stop looking at someone or something because they are so attractive or interesting
He couldn't take his eyes off her all night.
Her daughter, Lourdes Maria, is such a pretty little girl that I couldn't take my eyes off her.
to be good at noticing a particular type of thing
Your son has a very good eye for detail.
She's got an eye for details but a mind like anybody else's.
to look at someone in a direct way, without showing fear or shame
Look me in the eye and say that you didn't steal it.
One day she looked me in the eyes with a sharp deep look - never have I seen such a deep look - and asked me what was happening and I told her.
to watch carefully for someone or something to appear
Keep an eye out for the delivery van.
Although individually we try to deliver the best care possible for our individual patients, we do keep an ear or an eye out for the other members of the team that day.
to choose to ignore something that you know is wrong or illegal
Restaurant staff often took food home, and their boss turned a blind eye.
Nevertheless, we can't turn a blind eye to this reality.
to be famous and often featured in the media
Her new role means that she will be in the public eye.
But being famous also means that you are always in the public eye, which is a major drawback.
to get someone's attention by looking at them
I tried to catch her eye, but she had already turned away.
All of a sudden she caught my eye and smiled in a sad way.
to be attractive or different enough to be noticed by people
It was the colour of his jacket that caught my eye.
Dear Sir, I am writing regarding your newly published article about nutrition, which immediately caught my eye as I was reading your magazine.
If two people see eye to eye, they agree with each other.
Our teachers don't always see eye to eye with the headmaster.
Although I agree with some of the statements given by the young people, I do not see eye to eye with all of their viewpoints.
to watch carefully for someone or something
Keep your eyes peeled, he should be here any minute.
Ever since, I try to keep my eyes peeled for anything similar.
If someone cries their eyes out, they cry a lot about a problem or situation.
She cried her eyes out when he left her for another girl.
It wasn't an easy decision to make. Melanie spent many nights crying her eyes out in bed and trying to convince herself that she wasn't doing the right thing.
extremely quickly
In the blink of an eye, he was gone.
And for all those who keep nagging about losing their favourite regular programmes during such an event, be patient: TV routine will be back into your living rooms in the blink of an eye.
when people look at each other, for instance when they are talking to each other
There was very little eye contact between them.
I tried to avoid having eye contact with people just because of this humility.
to watch carefully for someone or something
Keep your eyes open for anything unusual.
It has helped us identify and successfully combat many a nutritional hazard, keeping our eyes open to immoderate consumption of some substances and its effects.
If something can be seen by the naked eye, it is big enough to be seen without special equipment.
These bugs are so tiny you cannot see them with the naked eye.
in your imagination or memory
In my mind's eye, she remains a little girl of six although she's actually a grown woman.
He sees her in his mind's eye, running around barefoot, laughing and squealing, wading in the water and running back out, screaming, trying to get away from the breaking waves.
to move your eyes so that they are looking up, usually to show surprise or disapproval
When I asked her when she thought the building work would be finished, she just rolled her eyes.
This attitude is obvious when, for instance, shop assistants show no patience for the slower reaction of elderly people; when nobody offers a seat to an older person in an overcrowded tube; when we roll our eyes about older people's desire for quiet, etc.
the thin line of hair that is above each eye
He's got really bushy eyebrows.
He woke up and cleaned off the blood from his injured eyebrow.
one of the short hairs which grow from the edge of your eyelids
false/long eyelashes
With his long dark eyelashes, he looked almost feminine.
the piece of skin that covers your eyes when you close them
His eyelids drooped with tiredness.
the ability to see
My eyesight is getting worse.
I had some trouble with my eyesight, so he advised me to wear glasses and not to strain my eyes.
cloth
a light/woollen fabric
Do small pieces of coloured fabric really have the might to change how people live their lives?
the basic way in which a society or other social group is organized
The family is part of the fabric of society.
You cannot infringe individual liberties and ban the purchase of cars - it would go against the very fabric of modern society.
extremely good
They've got a fabulous house.
We had an absolutely fabulous holiday.
Everybody admitted that the entertainment was absolutely fabulous.
the front part of the head, where the eyes, nose and mouth are, or the expression on this part
She's got a long, thin face.
She had a worried expression on her face.
She has got brown eyes, a round face and white skin.
to show with your face that you do not like someone or something
Joe made a face when he saw what was for lunch.
Making a face, I slapped my forehead.
If you accept something at face value because of the way it first looks or seems, you do so without thinking carefully about it.
You can't just accept everything you read in the newspapers at face value.
These results should not be taken at face value - careful analysis is required to assess their full implications.
People are assessed at face value by the type of cars they drive.
to become less respected by others because of something you did
The party has lost face with the public by abandoning their original policy on education.
However, many popular people like Pierce Brosnan managed to keep their lives out of the press and yet be present to meet public demand without losing face.
to manage to stop yourself from smiling or laughing
I can never play jokes on people because I can't keep a straight face.
used when you are describing how a situation seems on the surface
On the face of it, it seems like a bargain, but I bet there are hidden costs.
On the face of it, both sides have valid arguments, and it's a difficult balancing act to manage.
while having to deal with a difficult situation or problem
She refused to leave him, in the face of increasing pressure from friends and family.
No doubt, it was rather difficult to like Enid X. She was hardly likely to arouse sympathy in anybody even in the face of death.
to be the opposite of what is usual or accepted
These recommendations fly in the face of previous advice on safe limits of consumption.
But when we have a look outside our wonderful world, we can easily see that this argument flies in the face of the facts.
something someone does that insults or upsets you
After all that hard work, losing my job was a real slap in the face.
My father noticed that and decided it was high time to take me down a peg or two. He used to work as a volunteer in hospital for children dying for cancer. One day, he took me there. It was like a slap in the face - suddenly I saw a different world. It was a bleak world, without smiles and happy faces.
to be or turn in a particular direction
Our house faces north/south/east/west.
She turned to face him.
The café faces (towards) the sea.
There is a desk to the right of the room which faces my bed.
If you face a problem, or a problem faces you, you have to deal with it.
This is one of the many problems faced by working mothers.
Passengers could face long delays.
You're faced with a very difficult choice there.
Grandparents are experienced people and they can help their children to avoid a lot of problems which they have faced.
to not want to do something or deal with someone, often because it is difficult or unpleasant
I can't face walking up all those steps again.
I knew someone had to tell her but I couldn't face it.
How can I face him now that he knows what I've done?
Everybody at the swimming pool was laughing about me. I couldn't face my family.
to accept that something unpleasant is true and start to deal with the situation
I think Phil has to face the fact that she no longer loves him.
We have to face facts here - we simply don't have enough money.
He's dying but he refuses to face the truth.
But Mary has a strong personality, she faces the facts.
to accept punishment or criticism for something bad that you have done
At the end of the day I had to go home and face the music.
Teenagers who live with their parents have to face the music about the long bills their parents receive monthly!
something that you say before you say something that is unpleasant but true
Let's face it, none of us are getting any younger.
Let's face it, a life with no physical and mental exercise is something none of us relishes.
directly, meeting someone in the same place
We need to talk face to face.
I need to talk to her face to face.
involving two people who are meeting in the same place
a face-to-face meeting
The CEO refused our request for a face-to-face interview.
of or on the face
facial expressions/hair
I can still recall the doctor's facial expression when he announced the exciting news to me.
to make something possible or easier
I will do everything in my power to facilitate the process.
I found that the presentations and talks about CVs and letters of application were really useful, but we should have been divided into smaller groups to facilitate conversation.
the buildings, equipment and services provided for a particular purpose
childcare facilities
sports facilities
The city has more facilities than the countryside.
a part of a system or machine which makes it possible to do something
an overdraft facility
I would suggest free Internet access as an extra facility in our library.
something that you know is true, exists, or has happened
I don't know all the facts about what happened.
I'm not angry that you took my car - it's just the fact that you didn't ask me first.
I knew for a fact that she was lying.
I love this book, because it's about history facts and it's very interesting.
used to emphasize what is really true, or to give more information
We met Rebecca for lunch. In fact, we spent the whole afternoon with her.
I was told there were some tickets left but in fact they were sold out.
The club has its own small clubhouse, with many things in it. For example, there was a big pinball-game and some computers. In fact it was the best clubhouse I've ever seen.
used to refer to a situation which is surprising in relation to something that is true or happens
The company has been forced to reduce its price, despite the fact that the offer has been very popular.
The advantages of the kind of life that people had years ago is that they could eat more fruit and vegetables than us. However, there are advantages for us too, because despite the fact that we eat more fast food, we do more exercise than they did.
real events and experiences, not things that are imagined
It's sometimes hard to separate fact from fiction.
used to emphasize what is really true, or to give more information
I thought she was Portuguese, but in actual fact she's Brazilian.
Nowadays almost all people own a car and in actual fact more and more people have been facing death as a consequence of careless driving.
used to give more information, or to correct something that has been said
John plays golf professionally. As a matter of fact, he has just won a big competition.
"So you're from Cambridge?" "No, as a matter of fact, I'm from Bristol."
I think it would be better to choose somewhere outdoors. As a matter of fact, I prefer the open air and the sunlight!
used to tell someone that something is the truth
I wouldn't usually ask for your help, but the fact is I'm desperate.
You may find it unusual for a woman to play football, but the fact is I'm Brazilian and in Brazil it is really common.
one of the things that has an effect on a situation, decision, event, etc.
Money was an important factor in their decision to move.
Price is an important/key/major factor in the success of any product.
economic factors
Modern technology is another important factor which affects our life.
the thing that helps to make the final decision
Cost was the deciding factor in choosing these builders.
Personally, I think the quality of teachers, school reputation and facilities should be the deciding factor for parents for which schools their children should be educated in.
a building or set of buildings where large amounts of goods are made using machines
a car/shoe factory
He works in a paint factory.
a factory worker/manager
My friend Martin works at a factory.
a particular department at a college or university, or the teachers in that department
He works in the law faculty.
I graduated from Warsaw University, where I studied in the faculties of applied linguistics and journalism.
to become less bright, strong or clear, or to make something become less bright, strong or clear
If you hang your clothes out in the bright sun, they will fade.
My suntan is already fading.
They arrived home just as the light was fading.
The music began to fade.
The sun had faded the blue walls.
Since the cottage is quite isolated, the electric power supply is not always the best. Anyway, the first night, the lights started to fade.
to not pass a test or exam
A lot of people fail their driving test the first time.
If she doesn't work she'll fail all her exams.
"How was your chemistry exam?" "Awful! I think I've failed."
I was told most people fail the exam two or three times.
to not do what is necessary or expected
He failed to turn up for football practice yesterday.
He failed to mention that we wouldn't be paid for the work.
Your advertisement also failed to mention the fact that there were no discounts.
to not be successful
She moved to London in the hope of finding work as a model, but failed.
He failed in his attempt to break the record.
This method of growing tomatoes never fails.
I tried to make him give up, but all my attempts failed.
to stop working normally, or to become weaker
Two of the plane's engines had failed.
The sound system failed.
used to say that you do not accept something
I fail to see why you cannot work on a Sunday.
I fail to understand why they still refuse to use this media; it could possibly be the main solution to the present problems in the library.
when someone or something does not succeed
Their attempt to climb Everest ended in failure.
I'm a bit of a failure at making cakes.
I feel such a failure.
David told her that the reason for his failure was her, because she used to press him and she couldn't accept that he wanted to be an actor.
when you do not do something that you are expected to do
Failure to pay within 14 days will result in interest being charged.
It was his failure to return her phone call that told her that something was wrong.
when something does not work, or stops working as well as it should
All trains were delayed due to a power failure.
He died of heart/liver failure.
There has been a power failure but it will be solved in a few minutes.
slight and not easy to notice, smell, hear, etc.
a faint sound/noise/smell
She gave me a faint smile.
I heard a faint sound.
to feel very weak and as if you might fall down
Seeing all the blood made me feel faint.
Starting to feel faint, Fred quickly roused himself and ran out of the hotel as quickly as he could.
used to emphasize that you do not know something
I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.
Some twenty years ago, when I left my parents' home to go and live on my own, I was given four mugs. By whom? I haven't the faintest idea.
to suddenly become unconscious for a short time, usually falling down
He faints at the sight of blood.
I nearly fainted in the heat.
The young girl was about to faint.
having pale skin or a light colour of hair
She's got fair hair and blue eyes.
He's fair-haired.
She is a pretty girl with long fair hair and she has beautiful eyes.
treating everyone in the same way, so that no one has an advantage
That's not fair! You always go first!
It's not fair to make me do all the work.
a fair trial
I can't spend all my time with one child - it wouldn't be fair on the others.
Even though she thought her mum wasn't being fair, she decided to go and try to have a nice day with her family.
acceptable, reasonable or right
a fair deal
He offered a fair price for the car.
That's a fair comment/question.
You may ask yourself: "What do you do in a club?" Well, it's a fair question!!!
used for saying that you can understand and accept someone's opinion or decision
"He says he'll only work on Sunday if he gets paid extra." "Fair enough."
Most of the streets are open to cars and therefore people tend to escape to a little area around the pedestrian streets. Fair enough, but it makes those streets terribly overcrowded.
not very good but not very bad
Her German is very good, but her knowledge of French is only fair.
As for grammar, listening and writing skills, they were only fair.
quite a large amount, distance, size, etc.
There's still a fair bit of work to be done on the house.
Of course it is important to find a job we enjoy and which leaves us a fair amount of free time, but it is equally important to find a job that pays the bills, especially nowadays.
behaviour that is fair, honest, and does not take advantage of people
The public needs to feel a sense of fair play from the government.
He still believes in justice or just the rule of fair play.
an event outside where you can ride large machines for pleasure and play games to win prizes
The children spent all their money on rides at the fair.
For example in the morning we can go to a fair, like Six Flags. I think that it will be exciting.
an event where people show and sell goods or services relating to a particular business or hobby
a trade fair
Starting on 18th May 2003, the Birmingham NEC hosted the annual British trade fair.
more than average, but less than very
a fairly big family
She's fairly tall.
We get on fairly well.
I saw her fairly recently.
The weather was fairly warm.
If you do something fairly, you do it in a way which is right and reasonable and treats people equally.
He claimed that he hadn't been treated fairly by his employers.
Officials will ensure that the election is carried out fairly.
when you treat everyone in the same way, so that no one has an advantage
He believes in fairness and decency.
I think you have not treated us with fairness and truthfulness and therefore I do think that an apology in the newspaper would be in order.
great trust or confidence in something or someone
She has no faith in modern medicine.
You'll be fine - I have great faith in you.
After the trial, his family said they had lost all faith in the legal system.
We must do our best to help these children to have faith in their future.
strong belief in a god or gods
Even in the bad times she never lost her faith.
Her faith in God was shattered when her baby died.
It's my faith that keeps me going.
Your story about Christianity was very interesting and I was shocked at your deep faith in God.
a particular religion
the Muslim/Christian/Jewish faith
a multi-faith society
Everybody was praying, asking for help according to their faith or religion.
loyal
a faithful friend
They are faithful supporters of the Labour Party.
His faithful old dog accompanied him everywhere he went.
An ideal pet should be a faithful friend to people, especially to its owner.
If your husband, wife, or partner is faithful, they do not have a sexual relationship with anyone else.
a faithful husband
They remained faithful to each other throughout their long marriage.
Making a commitment to be faithful to another, and to love a person for the rest of your life is no small thing.
not changing any of the original details, facts, style, etc.
Does the film adaptation stay faithful to the novel?
Working with deconstruction in music, he remained faithful to his main motto: Be yourself, express yourself, never repeat or imitate.
used to end a formal letter to someone whose name you do not know
Yours faithfully, Katherine Smith
In this case your letter should have finished "Yours faithfully".
not real, but made to look or seem real
fake fur
a fake passport
On the walls there are paintings which are very artistic - one of them is a fake Picasso.
a copy of something that is intended to look real or valuable and deceive people
Experts say that the painting is a fake.
Many of the pictures taken are fakes.
someone who pretends to have particular skills or qualities so that they can deceive people or get their admiration
He said he was a doctor, but we soon realized he was a fake.
So, after all he was a fake!
to copy something in order to deceive people
The documents had been faked.
People liked it so much that another author, using the pseudonym of "Arellaneda", faked Cervante's novel by writing a second part.
to pretend that something has happened when it has not or to pretend to have a feeling that you do not have
They faked illness to avoid having to work.
He said he was feeling sick, but he was just faking it.
This situation lasted about two years until Caroline had a great idea: they would fake their death and run away to live a quiet life on a secret island they would have bought under an alias.
to move down towards the ground, sometimes by accident
The path's very steep, so be careful you don't fall.
He fell badly and broke his leg.
I fell down the stairs and injured my back.
He fell to his death climbing the Matterhorn.
By winter, all the leaves had fallen off the trees.
The snow had been falling steadily all day.
You'd better wear your cheap clothes as paint may fall on you.
to become lower in size, amount or strength
Demand for new cars has fallen recently.
The standard of his work has fallen during the year.
The temperature could fall below zero overnight.
Average temperatures fell by ten degrees.
The pound has fallen to its lowest-ever level against the dollar.
Share prices fell sharply this week.
It fell steadily until 1960, and remained at 3% until 1987.
to start to sleep or become ill
I fell asleep on the sofa watching TV.
I planned to go with my cousin but unfortunately she fell ill, so I had to go with my friend.
to start to love someone
I was 20 when I first fell in love.
I fell in love with David.
If an event or joke falls flat, it fails to have the effect that you wanted, such as making people laugh.
All the jokes in his speech fell flat.
The cultural visits fell flat in comparison to their expectations, although the sightseeing tour of Willstown was, as the students said, "fascinating".
used to say that it is becoming dark
When darkness fell, I began to feel worried.
He greeted the worms and the slugs, and as darkness fell he retired to the shelter he had built for the night.
to be defeated and start to be controlled by a different leader
In 1453 the city fell to the Turks.
to become worse, or start to be in a bad situation or condition
Education standards are continuing to fall.
Empty for 30 years, the building had fallen into ruin.
This impressive, massive 18th-century building which accommodated the Town Hall until recently (5 years ago) has now fallen into disuse.
to hang down
Her long blonde hair fell softly over her shoulders.
She had gorgeous black hair falling down her back, a creamy complexion and a figure models dream of.
If advice or a request falls on deaf ears, people ignore it.
Our pleas for help fell on deaf ears.
His cry for help and for a more meaningful relationship between himself and Mildred invariably fell on deaf ears.
When events or details that you did not understand before fall into place, they become easy to understand.
When Jo told me she had a twin sister, everything fell into place.
to be hurt or deceived by something or someone bad
He fell prey to a gang of criminals pretending to be council officials.
As young people do not have experience in living independently in society and are not fully aware of social problems such as drugs and violence, they may easily fall prey to adults who would like to exploit them.
to not reach a particular level, but only by a small amount
Sales for the first half of this year fell just short of the target.
Furthermore, it cannot be denied that public transport falls short of the target set during the planning process.
to fail to achieve something
His behaviour falls short of what we expect.
She just fell short of the grades she needed.
This routine was really wearing me out, but, I didn't want to fall short of my parents' expectations.
when the size, amount or strength of something gets lower
the recent fall in the price of petrol
a fall in the unemployment rate
We could hear the rise and fall of voices in the other room.
There is a fall in job vacancies.
when someone or something falls down to the ground, often without intending to or by accident
He had a nasty fall and hurt his back.
The boulder smashed several small trees during its fall.
I was terrified and I heard the noise of a fall just by my side.
when a city, government, leader, etc. loses power or control
the fall of communism
After the fall of the previous system everything changed.
not true or correct
a false name
false information
The rumour later turned out to be false.
You'll get a false impression/idea of the town if you only visit the university.
I must say that the advertisement for the show included a lot of false information.
not real, but made to look or seem real
false eyelashes/teeth
false documents
Asking what made her do so she answered that she had forgotten her false teeth, without which she couldn't have faced the fire-brigade.
not sincere or expressing real emotions
false promises
I hate the way he smiles at everyone. It's so false.
The actor is really getting on my nerves because he is so selfish and so false.
when you are known by many people because of your achievements, skills, etc.
She first rose to fame as a singer at the age of 16.
She moved to London in search of fame and fortune.
It is certain that these people have fame, fortune and success, and that many of them are very rich.
easy to recognize because of being seen, met, heard, etc. before
There were one or two familiar faces.
The house looked strangely familiar, though she knew she'd never been there before.
The street was familiar to me.
Someone started to wave and then I saw a familiar face.
to know something or someone well
I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with your poetry.
I'm familiar with many kinds of sports activities such as ball games, recreation games, swimming and Japanese budo-karate, judo etc.
to teach someone more about something new, or try to understand more about it yourself
We spent a few minutes familiarizing ourselves with the day's schedule.
The presenter should be acting as a teenager in order to familiarise the youth of the area with the programme immediately.
a group of people who are related to each other, such as a mother, a father, and their children
A new family has/have moved in next door.
I come from a large family - I have three brothers and two sisters.
He hasn't any family.
He's American but his family come/comes from Ireland.
This film is good family entertainment.
How does family life suit you?
I will come with my family.
the children of a family
Single parents have to raise a family on their own.
Paul and Alison are hoping to start a family soon.
Some people also want to have a family because they want to be a father or a mother.
when people living in a particular area do not have enough food for a long time causing suffering and death
The floods were followed by a terrible famine.
Pictures of the famine in Africa or the deforestation of the Amazon raise important issues for humanity as a whole, urging us to be more active citizens.
known and recognized by many people
a famous actor
New York is a city famous for its theaters and nightlife.
It is the most famous place in Edinburgh.
someone who admires and supports a person, sport, sports team, etc.
More than 15,000 Liverpool fans attended Saturday's game.
He's a big fan of country music.
I'm a fan of rock music.
something that is used to move the air around so that it feels cooler, such as a machine or an object that you move with your hand
There was no air conditioning, just a ceiling fan turning slowly.
Since it's quite hot here I brought a fan. I have to use it at night otherwise I can't get to sleep.
someone whose interest in something or enthusiasm for something is extreme
a religious fanatic
fitness/exercise fanatics
This can give way to fanatics, religious or political, who may easily influence the frustrated masses into doing something they would under other circumstances refrain from.
to want to have or do something
Do you fancy a drink this evening?
I didn't fancy swimming in that water.
Do you fancy eating at the restaurant together?
to feel sexually attracted to someone
I fancied him the first time I saw him.
He had 3 very nice boys and everybody in my class knew that I fancied his youngest son Nicolai.
used at the beginning of a sentence to show that you are surprised or shocked by something
Fancy seeing you here!
Fancy meeting a man who looked like an ancient knight!
extremely good
You look fantastic in that dress.
We had a fantastic time.
They've won a holiday? How fantastic!
The beaches here are fantastic!
extremely
They're fantastically rich.
They're doing fantastically well.
We spent three fantastically romantic days later.
a situation or event that you imagine, which is not real or true
Steve's favourite fantasy was to own a big house and a flashy car.
sexual fantasies
She retreated into a fantasy world, where she could be anything she wanted.
Reading a book stimulates one's fantasy and imagination.
at, to or from a great distance in space or time
Is the station far away?
She doesn't live far from here.
How far away does your mother live?
How far is it from Australia to New Zealand?
Bournemouth is not far from Poole.
One day, perhaps far in/into the future, you'll regret what you've done.
It isn't so far from my house so we can go on foot.
until now
So far we've made thirty-two thousand pounds.
So far I like it here very much.
very much
This car is far better than our old one.
It cost far more (money) than I could afford.
He loses his temper far too often.
I'd far rather/sooner go to the theatre than watch a DVD.
I think restaurant B is far better than restaurant A.
used to say that you think something is true, but cannot be sure
As far as I know, he's never been in trouble with the police.
As far as I know, accommodation at Camp California is in tents or log cabins.
used to say what someone's opinion is
It's all over as far as I'm concerned.
As far as I am concerned, Bernard is similar to him.
used to say what you are talking about
As far as sport is concerned, I like tennis and football.
As far as studying abroad is concerned, I totally agree with this idea.
by a great amount
They are by far the best students in the class.
I have travelled to many countries, but New Zealand is by far the best.
certainly not something
The situation is far from clear.
The quality of catering was far from ideal as well, as a meal in a hamburger restaurant can hardly be called a typical English lunch.
used to tell someone that something is certainly not true
He's not handsome - far from it.
The Hotel Royal cannot be considered as being luxury - far from it - i.e. our rooms were dirty and situated on the 4th floor without a lift.
used to talk about how true something is
How far do politicians represent the views of ordinary people?
How far and to what extent would the characteristics we are born with influence our future development in life?
used to say that something has gone well until now
It's the first time I've done any decorating, but so far so good.
So far so good, only no one told us they held this point of view before the actual christening took place.
certainly not doing something
Far from being pleased, he was embarrassed by the praise.
Far from asking you to close the airport, which would be quite an irrational request, I am suggesting that you should take some action to improve the situation.
to take the extreme action of doing something
He even went so far as to stop her using the telephone.
Our present course of action may go so far as to cause irreversible damage not only to our planet but also to the people living upon it.
to behave in a way that upsets or annoys other people
He's said some stupid things in the past, but this time he's gone too far.
Lucia let her speak and calmly said: "You really have gone too far this time."
not happening or existing very often
Opportunities like this are few and far between.
Jobs in those days were few and far between and for a number of years he was alternating between temporary jobs and unemployment benefit.
to be very different from something
The princess's world was far removed from reality.
It is the same problem with planned excursions to street markets in Asia, souks in Arabia or even tribes that are far removed from industrialized life in Papua New Guinea or the rainforest of Brazil.
describes the part of something that is most distant from the centre or from you
His office is at the far end of the corridor.
The children ran to the far side/corner of the room.
The dark spot at the far end of the wall seemed to be coming after her this time.
to be very different from something
Her luxury mansion is a far cry from the house she grew up in.
The museum was a far cry from what we expected. Not only were the machines really old and should have been replaced a long time ago, but they were boring as well.
used to describe political groups whose opinions are very extreme
He belongs to a far right group.
a long distance away
faraway places
They transport me to faraway places and to a magic world.
an expression on someone's face that shows that they are not thinking about what is happening around them
He had a faraway look in his eyes.
But her most noticeable features are her large brown eyes and her happy smile. Yet, sometimes you could see a faraway look in her eyes.
the money that you pay for a journey on a vehicle such as a bus or train
Air/Bus/Train fares are going up again.
In fact, there are buses (number 843 and 845) which go to my village but the bus fare is very expensive for me.
an area of land with fields and buildings, used for growing crops and/or keeping animals as a business
farm animals
It's very important because I'm going to a farm this weekend and there's nothing to do.
someone who owns or looks after a farm
a sheep farmer
The farmer was very friendly and we spent the day with him.
the activity of working on a farm or organizing the work there
modern farming practices
I am interested in farming and hope to own a farm one day.
to interest someone a lot
Science has always fascinated me.
What fascinates me about it is that this style of music allows the artist to bring in crazy new ideas such as African or Indian rhythms.
extremely interested
They were fascinated by his stories.
I am sure you will be fascinated by his work and his multi-faceted character.
extremely interesting
a fascinating person/place
I found the movie fascinating.
You can enjoy not only Hungarian food but also fascinating Hungarian music.
when you find someone or something fascinating
Her fascination with fashion started at an early age.
Anyhow, even if you can't grasp the deep meaning behind the words, its beautiful rhyme and rhythm will exert a fascination on you.
a style that is popular at a particular time, especially in clothes, hair, make-up, etc.
Long hair is back in fashion for men.
Fur coats have gone out of fashion.
She always wears the latest fashions.
I like this present because I love clothes and fashion.
making and selling clothes
the fashion industry
fashion magazines
When I'm tired, I like reading fashion magazines.
popular at a particular time
a fashionable nightclub/restaurant
fashionable clothes
It's no longer fashionable to smoke.
There are some fashionable cafes, restaurants and museums.
moving or happening quickly, or able to move or happen quickly
fast cars
a fast swimmer
Computers are getting faster all the time.
The fast train to London takes less than an hour.
I like fast music very much.
a very quick way of achieving or dealing with something
These intensive courses claim to offer a fast track to wealth and success.
If I ever found a job which lives up to these expectations, I would consider myself on a fast track already.
moving or happening quickly
We ran as fast as we could.
The accident was caused by people driving too fast in bad conditions.
I rode my bike home as fast as I could.
in a firm or tight way
He tried to get away, but she held him fast.
Thankfully, there are those who still cling to such age-old values as personal contentment and growth, regarding them as the anchors which hold happiness fast.
completely asleep
I looked into her room but she was still fast asleep.
Karen's grandson walks into the room to find her fast asleep on her favourite chair.
the busy and exciting way of life that a successful person has
Fed up with life in the fast lane, Jack gave up his job and moved to the countryside.
Finally, should you ask why people are not happier than before, the answer is that nowadays they spend more hours on work than before, because modern life is mostly a life in the fast lane.
quickly and in large numbers
Calls were coming in thick and fast by the end of the programme.
to close or fix something together, or to become closed or fixed together
Fasten your seat belt.
This shirt fastens at the back.
She fell fast asleep and only woke to the sound of the announcement: "Ladies and gentlemen fasten your seat belts - in a couple of minutes we will be landing in Kingston".
to fix one thing to another
He fastened the rope to a tree.
hot food that can be served very quickly because it is already prepared
fast food restaurants
We don't eat lots of fast food, usually I cook every day.
Someone who is fat weighs too much.
He eats all the time but he never gets fat.
She is tall and a little bit fat.
a solid or liquid substance that is taken from animals or plants and used in cooking
This product contains no animal fat.
I only use vegetable fats in cooking.
They should also consume as much salad as they can, due to the fact that it does not contain fat.
A fatal illness or accident causes death.
This illness is fatal in almost all cases.
the fatal shooting of an unarmed 15-year-old
Paul received a fatal shot in the head.
Fatal actions have very bad effects.
He made the fatal mistake/error of believing what they told him.
That was a fatal mistake because that person was my teacher and he wasn't so pleased about my behaviour.
what happens to someone, especially something bad
We want to decide our own fate.
His fate is now in the hands of the jury.
No one as powerless as him deserves this fate.
a power that some people believe decides what will happen
When we met again by chance in Cairo, I felt it must be fate.
Fate has brought us together.
But, little we did know what fate had in store for us.
your male parent
My father took me to watch the football every Saturday.
I got it from my father and mother.
the father of your husband or wife
My father-in-law was a banker.
My father-in-law, I'm pretty sure, will be able to answer all your questions.
Fatty foods contain a lot of fat.
Try to cut down on eating fatty foods.
There is a greater reliance on fast food and fatty foods.
If something bad that has happened is someone's fault, they are responsible for it.
She believes it was the doctor's fault that Peter died.
It's not my fault she didn't come!
"It's my fault" I said and he answered "Never mind, it's all ok".
responsible for something bad that has happened
I was at fault and I would like to apologize.
I really felt at fault.
something that is wrong with something
The car has a serious design fault.
They think the fire was caused by an electrical fault.
I went out of the house and I saw that the other houses had not got any lights, so it was not an electrical fault.
something that is wrong with someone's character
He has many faults, but dishonesty isn't one of them.
He had a fault: he talked a lot.
to criticize someone or something, especially without good reasons
She was always finding fault with our work.
Sometimes I take offence at their trying to find fault with me and I am not allowed to answer back.
perfect, or without any mistakes
a faultless performance
Children also need to be taught that parents are not faultless and the best way to teach a child to apologise is by doing it oneself after having treated the child unfairly.
not working correctly or not in perfect condition
faulty brakes/goods
Big supermarkets always give you a complete refund if an item is of poor quality or faulty.
something that you do to help someone
She rang up to ask me a favour.
Could you do me a favour - could you give this to Sean, please?
Could you do me a favour?
to agree with or approve of a plan or idea
Most people are in favour of reducing traffic in cities.
I am certainly in favour of holding the music festival next year.
If something is in your favour, it helps you to win or succeed.
Both sides have strong arguments in their favour.
Unfortunately the weather conditions were not in our favour, but the rain only lasted a few minutes and did not look at all like a downpour.
If you refuse or get rid of someone or something in favour of someone or something else, you choose them instead.
They dropped him from the team in favour of a much younger player.
The city council should revise the airport project ... and change the current location of the airport in favour of a more isolated area.
to choose or prefer one possibility
These are the running shoes favoured by marathon runners.
This development probably would not be really favoured by individuals either, as most people use their own car to do the shopping mostly and just to go on their daily business.
showing that you like or approve of someone or something, or making you support or approve of someone or something
She made a very favourable impression on us.
It is the first thing people see from our village and if their first impression is favourable, they will feel like going further into the village.
making something more likely to be successful
We had favourable weather conditions for the sailing competition.
As far as bringing up my own children is concerned, I would like to follow my mother in the above-mentioned aspects (I feel I had a rare opportunity to be raised in extremely favourable conditions).
best liked or most enjoyed
"What's your favourite colour?" "Green."
My favourite food is pasta.
my favourite band/book/film
My favourite food is rice and curry.
a thing that someone likes best or enjoys most
How clever of you to buy chocolate chip cookies - they're my favourites.
We are going to see a thriller film, they are my favourites.
the person, animal or thing that is most likely to win a competition
The Dallas Cowboys are now favourites to win.
Her novel was the favourite to win the prize, but the judges chose differently.
to send a document using a fax machine
Fax me your reply/Fax your reply to me.
I will ask one of my classmates to fax me the work you set, and I will try to do it.
a strong, unpleasant feeling that you get when you think that something bad, dangerous, or frightening might happen
her fear of snakes
Shaking/Trembling with fear, she handed over the money to the gunman.
There are fears that the disease will spread to other countries.
Fears for her safety are growing.
The low profit figures simply confirmed my worst fears.
I was afraid to eat it but after the first bite, I lost my fear.
because you are worried about something/doing something
I didn't want to move for fear of waking her up.
No one dared to turn around for fear of being bitterly disappointed.
to be worried or frightened that something bad might happen or might have happened
Police fear (that) the couple may have drowned.
It is feared (that) as many as two hundred passengers may have died in the crash.
Lots of changes which may occur during these next fifty years might make us fear that our sons' and grandsons' lives will not be as happy as ours.
to be frightened of something or someone
Most older employees fear unemployment.
What do you fear most?
I've always feared the dark.
to worry that something very bad will happen or that something very bad has happened
When there was no sign of the children, the rescuers feared the worst.
Her parents had been quarrelling constantly now for almost half a year, and she feared the worst.
frightened or worried
Many women are fearful of travelling alone.
My mother is a very fearful person and when I was playing with other children in the sea I could not stand it when she interrupted our game all the time with the same words: "Do not do that and do not do this, it is too dangerous."
not frightened of anything
a fearless fighter
It is something which associates in my mind with extreme, fearless guys who tend to live on the edge of life, always searching for new strong feelings and a 'dose of adrenaline'.
possible to do
a feasible plan
It may be feasible to clone human beings, but is it ethical?
In the context of Singapore, where land is scarce and the widening or building of more roads is just not feasible, we have no choice but to choose what is best for everyone.
a large meal, especially to celebrate something special
a wedding feast
Finally, they have a feast with a lot of food and wine.
to eat a lot of food and enjoy it very much
We feasted on fried chicken, ice cream, and chocolate cake.
Some people think that travelling entails feasting on typical food and buying lots of clothes.
an act or achievement that shows great skill or strength
The Eiffel Tower is a remarkable feat of engineering.
It can be argued that, on this level, sport is close to becoming a form of art but it is undoubtedly a feat of strength just to have qualified in an event of this kind.
used when you want to emphasize that an act or achievement is very difficult
Learning to ski at 60 is no mean feat!
There was an interesting discussion about whether it was harder or easier for them to enter the world of cinema, given their famous names. Both said that it was no mean feat because people were more demanding as to their abilities.
one of the soft, light things that grow from and cover a bird's skin
I found a peacock's feather.
Birds were cleaning their feathers and singing morning songs, monkeys were jumping at the top of an old tree in the corner of the monastery yard.
a typical quality, or an important part of something
The town's main features are its beautiful mosque and ancient marketplace.
Our latest model of phone has several new features.
He explained the features of the new product to the rest of his colleagues.
Someone's features are the parts of their face that you notice when you look at them.
His eyes are his best feature.
They have similar figures, and the features of their faces are nearly the same.
a special article in a newspaper or magazine, or a special television programme
a double-page feature on global warming
As a regular reader of the student magazine 'Uni', I read with particular interest last week's feature on political thrillers.
to include someone or something as an important part
The film features James Dean as a disaffected teenager.
This week's broadcast features a report on victims of domestic violence.
My favourite song is "Candy Shop", by 50 Cent, featuring Olivia.
the second month of the year, after January and before March
28(th) February/February 28(th)
I was born on the fifth of February/February the fifth.
We moved house last February.
We are moving house next February.
Building work is expected to start in February.
The class is 27th February at 7:30 p.m.
annoyed or bored by something that you have experienced for too long
I'm fed up with my job.
He got fed up with all the travelling he had to do.
I'm sure that the whole world is fed up with Mozart.
an amount of money that you pay to do something, to use something, or to get a service
university/college fees
an entrance/registration fee
Due to the fact that the centre is new and very big, the fee is quite high, about a hundred euros for three months.
extremely weak
She became too feeble to get out of bed.
Most of the times, the owner is a decrepit and feeble old man, who can hardly hear you, but who can be a magnificent narrator.
not very good or effective
a feeble argument/excuse
Some of the passengers began to pray under their breath, in a feeble attempt to suppress their panic.
to give food to a person, group or animal
I usually feed the neighbour's cat while she's away.
Let's feed the kids first and have our dinner after.
If you feed your dog on cakes and biscuits, it's not surprising he's so fat.
You can also ride horses and feed animals like rabbits, birds and hamsters.
If an animal or a baby feeds, it eats.
The caterpillars feed on cabbage leaves.
In the same way, animals killed plants and fed on them.
to supply something such as information to a person or a machine, especially in a regular or continuous way
We fed them false information about our plans.
Nicola fed the pages into the photocopier.
For heaven's sake, the strike lasted for three weeks not three years. ... They feed you with lies.
information or opinions about something, such as a new product, that provide an idea of whether it is successful or liked
Have you had any feedback from customers about the product?
positive/negative feedback
I am writing to you to give you feedback about the social programme.
to experience something physical or emotional
"How are you feeling?" "Not too bad, but I've still got a headache."
My eyes feel really sore.
I'm feeling really happy today!
I feel embarrassed about making so many mistakes.
I like Prague, because it is place where I feel good.
to have a feeling or idea about something that you have experienced even though it is not true
I feel as if I've known you for ages.
It feels like I've been here forever and yet it's only been three months.
I feel like I've been here for ages.
to have a wish for something, or to want to do something, at a particular moment
I feel like going for a swim.
I feel like a nice cool glass of lemonade.
"Are you coming to aerobics?" "No, I don't feel like it today."
He was so rude I felt like hitting him.
The weather is warm and I feel like swimming.
to seem to be similar to a type of person, thing, or situation
My feet feel like blocks of ice.
I felt like a fool when I saw what everyone else was wearing.
In front of these big towers, I feel like a tiny insect!
to think something or have an opinion
I feel (that) I should be doing more to help her.
Do you feel very strongly about this?
I feel certain I'm right.
The more he got close to this man, the more he felt sure it was Chris, who died in a car crash in April 1972.
to feel sympathy for someone because they are in a difficult situation
I feel so sorry for the children - it must be really hard for them.
Anyway, I feel sorry for her and I wonder: what would I do if I were her?
to feel happy and confident in a place or situation
After a month she felt at home in her new job.
I explained: "I was in Manchester for just 10 months and during that time the people from there made me feel at home so I feel proud to have the accent."
to touch something, especially with your hands, in order to examine it
I felt his head and it was hot.
Just feel how cold my hands are!
I was feeling around in my bag for the keys.
I tried to open the heavy door; I could feel the iron bar with my almost frozen fingers.
If a place, situation, etc., feels different, strange, etc., that is how it seems to you, or that describes your experience of it.
It felt strange to see him again after so long.
The house feels empty without the children.
It felt strange and yet so wonderful to ski in the summer!
to be aware of something
I could feel them watching me.
I could feel the silence.
to feel that you should do something
He felt compelled to resign from his job.
As a member of the International Student's Sports Club, I felt compelled to write this article in answer to the previous article about how today's youth is putting sports and healthy activities aside.
to feel very weak and as if you might fall down
Seeing all the blood made me feel faint.
Starting to feel faint, Fred quickly roused himself and ran out of the hotel as quickly as he could.
emotion
a feeling of joy/sadness
The feeling of loneliness was suddenly too much for him.
Her performance seemed to me completely lacking in feeling.
When I'm walking alone I can think about all my feelings, combine them into one and the name of this feeling is love.
Your feelings are your beliefs and emotions, especially those influenced by other people.
You can't hide your feelings from me.
I didn't want to hurt his feelings, so I didn't tell him what she'd said about him.
I can't explain my feelings.
an idea that something is true or exists
I had the strange feeling that we had met before.
I got the feeling that she was unhappy with the arrangement.
When I saw the policeman's face I got a bad feeling about this man. He didn't look like a cop but he was dressed like one, so I decided to stay away from this guy.
when you feel something physical
I've got this odd feeling in my stomach.
My toes were so cold that I'd lost all feeling in them.
After one hour I was home and still had the feeling of warm rain touching my skin.
an opinion or belief
My feeling is that we had better act quickly or it will be too late.
My feeling is that we should simply buy what we want to buy and not what we are prompted to buy.
when people are upset or angry with each other
I don't want to cause any bad feeling between us.
For those who can't afford to shop, this might cause them to envy and harbour ill feeling towards those they can see are enjoying and splurging.
describes someone who has the same job or interests as you, or is in the same situation as you
She introduced me to some of her fellow students.
Our fellow travellers were mostly Spanish-speaking tourists.
In conclusion, I have to declare that I myself and my fellow students will be available to help with this short video.
belonging or relating to women, or to the sex that can produce eggs or have babies
a female athlete/employee
female cats/elephants
She was voted the best female vocalist.
All my female friends at school say that he is an attractive young man.
a female animal or person
The kitten was actually a female, not a male.
Females represent 40% of the country's workforce.
We all know the problems that are caused by having animals kept in a zoo: females refuse the males, or they become mad from the lack of freedom.
showing qualities that people generally think are typical of women
a feminine voice
feminine beauty
When my grandmother was a young women, it was a must for her to wear a dress or at least a skirt and a very feminine blouse.
a wood, wire or metal structure which divides or goes around an area of land
a garden fence
I looked around to make sure that no-one saw me and jumped over the fence.
to take care of yourself without help
When you go away to college, you have to learn to fend for yourself.
For such people to be able to provide for their families and fend for themselves, they have to work irrespective of how they do the job.
a boat that regularly carries passengers and often vehicles across an area of water
a car ferry
We're going across to France by/on the ferry.
We took the ferry to Calais.
We are planning to go to the "Red Island", which is just 15 minutes from Rovigno by ferry.
Fertile land or soil produces a lot of healthy plants.
They settled in the fertile river valleys.
We had an enormous backyard with the most fertile soil where we grew all sorts of vegetables.
a series of special events, performances, etc. that often takes place over several days
a folk/pop/rock festival
The Aldeburgh Festival is held every year in June.
the Cannes Film Festival
I decided to go to that city because of the film festival that was going to happen.
a special day or period when people celebrate something, especially a religious event
the Jewish festival of Hanukkah
I like to dress up traditionally during festivals.
to go to another place to get something or someone and bring them back
Could you fetch my glasses for me from the other room, please?
I have to fetch my mother from the station.
I'll come and fetch you at 7 o'clock.
when someone's body temperature rises because they are ill
He's got a headache and a high/slight fever.
I understood that she was alone with her brother and he has a fever.
when people are very excited about something
Election fever has gripped the nation.
It was then when they started to build enormous buildings and skyscrapers all around. The "building fever" had started.
some, or a small number of
I'll be ready in a few minutes.
I need to get a few things in town.
We've been having a few problems with the new computer.
"How many potatoes do you want?" - "Oh, just a few, please."
I've met a few of his friends.
I invited a few of my friends and relatives.
quite a large number of
I know quite a few people who've had the same problem.
We played quite a few games and we had prizes for the winner of each of the games.
a small number, not many or not enough
He is among the few people I can trust.
Very few people can afford to pay those prices.
Few of the children can read or write yet.
We get few complaints.
According to the survey, as few as 10% of us are happy with our jobs.
Usually there are very few people, so it's a great place to escape from busy towns.
not happening or existing very often
Opportunities like this are few and far between.
Jobs in those days were few and far between and for a number of years he was alternating between temporary jobs and unemployment benefit.
the substance in plants which cannot be digested and helps food pass through your body
Broccoli is a good source of fibre.
We try to eat less fat and more fibre, like oats, instead of sandwiches with butter and cheese.
literature and stories about imaginary characters and events
The book is a work of fiction and not intended as a historical account.
a writer of children's fiction
In his fiction, one can detect traces of different literary schools.
something that is not true or real
Nobody knows whether his statement is fact or fiction.
Everything she had said turned out to be a complete fiction.
With regret I have to admit that the lively social programme was a total fiction and the only thing participants could do was to find and make friends oneself, as I did.
existing only in fiction
a fictional character
What he is especially known and admired for are his fictional but memorable characters, which became almost archetypes in literature.
an area of land used for growing crops or keeping animals
corn fields
The cows were all standing in one corner of the field.
You could spend hours walking in wonderful forests and fields.
an area of grass used for playing sport
the school playing/sports field
a football/hockey/rugby field
They filmed our sports fields and our classroom.
an area of study or activity
He's an expert in the field of biochemistry.
This time it is the case of telecommunications, tomorrow it will be the time of advances in the field of medicine.
the people who are competing in a race, activity, or business
We lead the field in genetic research.
Brian Moore leads the field with a style that can only be called immaculate.
an area of land covered with or containing a lot of a particular substance
a gas/oil field
The upper part of the volcano is a vast field of black lava.
They searched for meteorites on the frozen ice fields of Antarctica.
Our tour took also us to see the lower fields; from where the tour bus stops to the end of the lava fields, which is in the sea, it takes about thirty minutes walking.
violent or angry
a fierce dog
a fierce attack/battle
Two men were shot during fierce fighting last weekend.
This may surprise some of you who have always thought of the tiger as a fierce and dangerous beast.
very strong or powerful
Fierce winds/storms battered the coast all weekend.
Fire fighters had to retreat from the fierce heat.
The need for darkness was justified by the fierce thunderstorm, which seemed likely to smash the house into pieces.
showing strong feeling or energetic activity
The expansion plans will face fierce opposition/resistance from environmentalists.
There is fierce competition to join the Special Branch.
Nowadays, family life importance is a matter that arouses fierce passions.
the number 15
thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen
"How many books were returned?" "Fifteen."
She's invited fifteen children to her party.
It is fifteen years old and it is in good condition.
5th written as a word
the fifth floor of the building
Tomorrow is the fifth of September.
This is the fifth Harry Potter book.
one of five equal parts of something
One fifth is the same as 20 percent.
the number 50
forty, fifty, sixty
They were travelling at fifty miles an hour.
There were fifty guests at my party.
to be aged between 50 and 59
He retired when he was still in his fifties.
Despite being in my fifties I am healthy and in good shape.
the years from 1950-1959
Many new towns were built in the fifties.
I love bands from the fifties, sixties, seventies... and most of the radio stations seem to forget that the music has a history and it is always nice to remember past songs, because a good song will always be a good song.
to use physical force to try to defeat another person or group of people
Two men were fighting outside the park.
Sam's always fighting with his little brother.
She was very tired and afraid, so I decided to help her by going to the "Blue Forest", and I remember I fought with the wizards.
to take part in a war
Millions of young men fought in World War One.
He fought in the Spanish Civil war and in World War II.
to argue
We've got to stop fighting in front of the children.
Then I became angry again because although I spent my day doing nothing, I didn't buy a present for my sister, and when I went home we fought.
to try hard to stop something bad happening
He fought against racism.
New measures have been introduced to fight crime.
The other great advantage is that it is a nice way of fighting against pollution.
to try hard to achieve something you want or think is right
They are fighting for their freedom.
He had to fight hard to keep his job.
All of them were fighting for their cause.
when people use physical force to hurt or attack others
Jeff's always getting into/starting fights.
The older boys broke up the fight.
He put up a fight when the police tried to arrest him.
My son got into a fight on his way from the school to the house and he had a black eye.
when you use a lot of effort to achieve or stop something
Join us in our fight for freedom!
We must continue the fight against homelessness.
He died last week after a long fight with cancer.
This year has brought some good news in the fight to save the whales.
I was sitting like every evening in my armchair, reading my favorite book "My fight for Irish freedom" and suddenly the lights went out.
an argument
I don't want to have a fight over this.
I had a fight with my mother and she told me off in front of my friends.
when people fight, especially in a war
Fierce fighting has continued all day.
Kung-fu is not only a way of fighting, it is also a way of life.
the symbol for a number or an amount expressed in numbers
Can you read this figure? Is it a three or an eight?
Write the amount in both words and figures.
I looked quickly down the column of figures.
He earns a six-figure salary.
More than 5,000 were present, so I don't understand why you mention the figure 2,000.
the shape of someone's body, usually an attractive shape
She's got a good figure.
She has long blond hair and blue eyes. She has a good figure.
a particular type of person, often someone important or famous
Lincoln was a major figure in American politics.
She is an important figure in Argentina.
a person that you cannot see clearly
I could see two tall figures in the distance.
Suddenly a figure appeared in front of us.
a number that expresses an amount, especially in official documents
Government figures show a rise in unemployment.
They do not have any avenues of change until they migrate to cities, which only 15% of villagers do in Pakistan according to government figures.
a picture or drawing in a book or document, usually with a number
Look at the graph shown in Figure 2.
Figure 1 demonstrates the use of electricity in England in summer and winter.
numbers from 0 to 9/numbers from 10 to 99, etc.
I don't know exactly how many times the train has been late this month, but it's certainly in double figures.
to decide something after thinking about it
I figured that it was time to tell her the truth.
Everything around us is constantly cutting down on budget, leaving fewer and less attractive work places, so I figure the best way to actually obtain a job is to go after something you're truly passionate about.
a collection of information such as text, pictures or computer programs stored together electronically with a single name
What's the file name?
I'm going to copy/save this file.
I need the computer to save all my files.
a collection of information and documents about someone or something
a study file
The school keeps files on all its students.
I think I've left the file near the table in the drawing room.
to make a container or space full, or to become full
I filled the bucket with water.
I drank my tea while the bath was filling.
It was really hot, even for a summer day, but we were refreshed by a beautiful waterfall that we stopped at to fill our water bottle.
If people or things fill a space, there are a lot of them in it.
Dark clouds filled the sky.
The streets were filled with tourists.
Suddenly clouds filled the sky with darkness.
If light, sound, or a smell fills a place, you can easily notice it.
The smell of smoke filled the room.
The class was filled with the sound of laughing.
to make someone feel very angry/happy/proud, etc.
The thought of losing him filled her with fear.
Nobody was talking and the 50 passengers were filled with terror.
to give a job or position to someone
I'm sorry, the job/position/post/vacancy has already been filled.
We would prefer to fill the position with a recent graduate.
Suppose if ten people retire from an organization, the vacancies are filled by bringing up the middle management and their previous positions will be filled be lower management.
to provide something that people need or want
The new nursery is really filling a need.
I had nearly finished my study and had an idea to start a small software company, filling a gap in the market that was overlooked by the larger I.T. companies.
a story shown in moving pictures, shown at the cinema or on television
What's your favourite film?
We took the children to see a film.
I hate people talking while I'm watching a film.
He made over thirty films.
a film critic/director/producer
the film industry
She likes watching cricket, films, and drama. She likes music very much.
a thin layer of something on a surface
A thick film of dust covered the furniture.
The walls were covered with a thin film of water.
to record moving pictures with a camera, usually to make a film
Most of the scenes were filmed in a studio.
They filmed for a week in Spain.
So he had put it into his cupboard which was just open and the burglar hadn't noticed the camera which filmed all his actions.
a film director, especially an independent one who has control over how the film is made
one of the industry's top film-makers.
The plot is about a film-maker and his difficulties in finishing his last film.
to pass a liquid or gas through a piece of equipment in order to remove solid pieces or other substances
The water was filtered to remove any impurities.
The sun's rays, filtered through the black lenses, seemed harmless.
to gradually appear
The sunlight filtered through the bedroom curtains.
Outside, the moonlight filtered through the leaves of the roadside trees like a sheet of burnished silver.
to gradually become known
News is filtering in of an earthquake in Mexico.
At first I didn't realise what Nicole was saying, because she spoke French. Then the message slowly filtered down - Pregnant.
a piece of equipment that you pass a liquid or gas through in order to remove particular substances
a coffee filter
Finally, the governments of all countries should implement heavy pecuniary punishments to the factory owners who do not use special filters on their chimneys or on their waste systems.
extremely dirty
Wash your hands, they're filthy!
Creaking, worn-out beds, dripping taps and filthy rugs have nothing in common with 'luxury'!
rude or offensive
filthy language/jokes
Smoking is a filthy habit.
As far as books are concerned, pornography and filthy language is evident everywhere, to lure people to buy these books.
last in a series or coming at the end of something
a final warning/offer
the final paragraph
West Ham scored in the final minute.
The game is in its final stages.
I need them immediately as my final exam is the day after tomorrow.
If a decision, agreement, or answer is final, it will not be changed or discussed any more.
The committee's decision is final.
It was the sort of statement that you know is final, and Mr. Cameron perceived this.
the last in a series of games, races or competitions, usually the one in which the winner is chosen
They're in the final.
Last year we got through to the final.
The men's basketball final will be on Sunday.
We were in the final, but we lost.
after a long time or some difficulty
We finally got home at midnight.
After months of looking he finally found a job.
Well, I have finally decided that I will paint my room blue.
used especially at the beginning of a sentence to introduce the last point or idea
Finally, I'd like to thank everyone for coming this evening.
Finally, I want you to say hi to everybody and I am looking forward to seeing you.
the control of how large amounts of money should be spent
the finance minister
You need to speak to someone in the finance department.
The finance committee controls the school's budget.
Therefore we decided to invite a minister of finance to explain it.
the money which a person, company or country has
We keep a tight control on the organization's finances.
She needs to sort out her finances.
First of all, we should budget our finances better.
to provide the money needed for something to happen
The local authority has refused to finance the scheme.
I am applying for this job because I want to earn some money to finance my study.
relating to money or how money is managed
They're having a few financial difficulties at the moment.
a financial adviser
The person described himself as a financial officer of a South African government and needs a contact person in Switzerland to transfer 200 m dollars.
in a way that relates to money or how money is managed
He's still financially dependent on his parents.
They advise them or help them financially.
to discover something or someone that you have been searching for
I couldn't find Andrew's telephone number.
Police found the missing girl at a London railway station.
Has Mick found himself a place to live yet?
I can't find my cd, can you bring some music please?
to discover something by chance
I found some money in my coat pocket.
The body was found by a man walking his dog.
Miss Murphy said that she had found my diary in a street near the airport.
to become aware that something exists or has happened
We came home to find (that) the cat had had kittens.
I found (that) I could easily swim 1000 metres.
I found that the food inside there is very nice.
to think or feel a particular way about someone or something
Do you find Clive difficult to talk to?
She doesn't find it easy to talk about her problems.
I find living in the city quite stressful.
I found her very helpful.
I found it very amusing.
to have or get enough money/time, etc. to do something
Where do you find the money to do all these things?
I hope you will keep fit and find the time to do everything.
to become aware that you have gone somewhere or done something without intending to
I suddenly found myself making lunch.
The most embarassing moment of my life was when, during a school trip to Paris, a friend of mine and I went to the wrong room and found ourselves in front of our teacher who, having had a shower, was looking for his glasses.
to exist or be present somewhere
Many plant and animal species are found only in the rainforests.
Vitamin C is found in citrus fruit.
An example might be the koala bear, which could be found almost everywhere in Australia not so long ago.
to judge that someone is guilty or not guilty in a law court
She was found guilty of murder.
To the surprise of everyone in the village, the judge found her guilty but didn't send her to jail because he thought she should take care of Linda, who had no other relatives.
to criticize someone or something, especially without good reasons
She was always finding fault with our work.
Sometimes I take offence at their trying to find fault with me and I am not allowed to answer back.
to find shared beliefs, interests or ideas
It's difficult for me to find any common ground with my dad.
The bottom line is we have to find some common ground and some balance between development and nature...
well, healthy, or happy
"How are you?" "I'm fine, thanks."
I felt terrible last night but I feel fine this morning.
I'm fine.
used to agree with a suggestion, idea, etc.
"Shall we meet at 8 o'clock?" "Yes, that's fine."
OK that's fine. We'll meet at 8pm.
good or good enough
"Is this soup hot enough?" "Yes, it's fine."
sunny and not raining
If it's fine tomorrow, we could have a picnic.
Today the weather is fine and warm.
excellent or much better than average
fine wines
This building is the finest example of its type.
There we will be served a fine dinner.
thin or made of very small pieces
fine, brown hair
fine sand
They got their hands on some anthrax bacteria, grew them in petri dishes and with all her knowledge in biology managed to make anthrax spores. Her friends ground the clumps of spores into fine particles.
an amount of money that you must pay for breaking a rule or law
She had to pay a fine.
a parking fine
The maximum penalty is a $1000 fine.
If found guilty, he faces a heavy fine.
She was made to pay a fine and she wasn't sent to prison.
to charge someone an amount of money as a punishment for not obeying a rule or law
Drivers who break the speed limit can expect to be fined heavily.
They fined him $100 for using threatening behaviour.
Besides, you can be fined by the police.
very well or without any problems
"How did your exam go?" "It went fine, I think."
The car was working fine yesterday.
The couple was great and everything went fine.
into small pieces
Finely chop the onion.
one of the long thin separate parts of the hand, including your thumb
He noticed her long delicate fingers.
I cut my finger chopping vegetables last night.
Then my mother brought the cake and while she was lighting the candles she burnt her finger.
to hope that things will happen in the way that you want them to
Let's keep our fingers crossed that she gets the job.
We're crossing our fingers and hoping that the weather stays fine.
Wish me luck, Winnie," she sighed "keep your fingers crossed, please".
to understand exactly why a situation is the way it is
Something was wrong, but I couldn't put my finger on it.
Something sinister about the picture, he felt, but he couldn't put his finger on what made him think this.
to be/stay familiar with the most recent changes or improvements
The situation changes daily, so you've got to keep your finger on the pulse.
It wouldn't be clever to hire people who are completely ignorant about music and they must constantly keep their finger on the pulse of the music industry.
the hard part that covers and protects the top of the end of your finger
dirty/long fingernails
She had bright red fingernails.
Half way through dinner we had discussed almost everything about him: his lips, fingernails, how he would look in swimming pants, how he would dance etc.
If you have something at your fingertips, you can get it and use it very easily.
He had all the information needed at his fingertips.
An Internet connection literally means having the world at your fingertips.
to complete something, or come to the end of an activity
I'll call you when I've finished my homework.
Please place your questionnaire in the box when you've finished.
She finished the concert with a song from her first album.
Have you finished reading that magazine?
I have finished my course.
to end
The meeting should finish around four o'clock.
The play finishes with a song.
He goes to college at 9 am and finishes at 1 pm.
to eat, drink or use something completely so that none remains
He finished his coffee and left.
We finished the pie last night.
After Maria finished her coffee, she got the man's phone and left the cafe.
to be in the first/second, etc. winning position at the end of a race or competition
Her horse finished fourth.
I finished third; it is good even if we were only 7.
the end of a race, or the last part of something
a close finish
They replayed the finish in slow motion.
We had a race and I came second at the finish.
from the beginning of something to its end
I enjoyed the film from start to finish.
I found out that the service itself should last at least one and half hours from start to finish.
having a limit or end
We only have a finite amount of time to complete this task.
Some analysts suggest that the price increase is due to the facts that petrol is a finite resource which could become unavailable in the next 20-30 years.
heat, light, and flames that are produced when something burns
The library was badly damaged in the fire.
It is thought that the fire was started deliberately.
It took the firefighters three hours to put out the fire.
How many historic buildings are damaged by fire each year?
Yesterday I bought very cool clothes. ... I bought them because yesterday all my shoes and T-shirts were burned in a fire.
to start burning
The car crashed and caught fire.
One of the new machines that I had brought from Germany had caught fire.
If something is on fire, it is burning when it should not be.
If your home was on fire and you could save only one thing, what would it be?
A lot of buildings were on fire.
a small controlled fire that is used for heating or cooking
It's very cold in here - should I light a fire?
We built a fire on the beach.
We put up our tents and made a small fire.
In the evenings we sat down on the grass round a fire and talked to each other.
the shooting of guns and other weapons
The soldiers opened fire.
Suddenly, one of the thieves opened fire.
to be criticized
The government has come under fire for closing the hospital.
to make something start burning, usually to cause damage
Enemy troops set fire to the village.
At this point nothing made sense anymore, so I just watched while Jake set the car on fire.
to be involved in an activity that could be dangerous
We're playing with fire if we continue with genetic modification of our food.
Stop playing with fire or World War 3 might come in the shape of a nuclear war.
to cause a weapon to shoot bullets, arrows or missiles
He fired his gun into the air.
He fired three shots.
Someone started firing at us.
Without warning he started firing into the crowd.
Martins found Lime on an iron staircase and fired a last shot, killing Lime.
to tell someone they must leave their job
She was fired after she was caught stealing from her employer.
He was fired from his last job for poor performance.
She has just been fired as editor of the newspaper.
Last month I was fired from my job in a bank.
to make someone very excited or interested in something
His paintings really fired my imagination.
The newspaper article on education that I read really fired my imagination and urged me to think about the points raised.
an organization that is in charge of preventing and stopping unwanted fires
Call the fire brigade.
By that time the fire brigade had arrived - luckily some neighbour had phoned them.
a person whose job is to stop fires from burning
His cousin works as a firefighter.
We could see firefighters and ambulances coming from all over the premises!
a space in the wall of a room where you can have a fire, or the structure around this space
There was a large fireplace in the living room.
They were sitting in front of the fireplace, in a tiny cottage.
the building where fire engines are kept and firefighters wait for emergencies
We visited our local fire station.
I only saw Mr. Bean from my classroom window - they were filming him running to the fire station.
a small object that explodes to produce a loud noise and bright colours, often used to celebrate special events
a firework display
When it gets dark we'll let off/set off the fireworks.
What time do the fireworks start?
We have spent three days at Disneyland, watching fireworks every night.
not soft, but not completely hard
A firm bed is better for your back.
certain or fixed and not likely to change
We don't have any firm plans for the weekend yet.
I'm a firm believer in equal rights.
It is my firm belief that I would use all the experience I have.
strict and making certain that people do what you want
You've got to be firm with children.
Being an officer, my father was rather firm with my sister and me.
strong and tight
a firm handshake/grip
Of course there will be moments where you have to mark out a border to the child by a firm grip on his arm or a slap on his bottom, but it shouldn't have to happen very often.
a company or business
He works for a law firm called Neil and Vigliano.
He's just started working for an accountancy firm/a firm of accountants in Bristol.
I have to improve my knowledge of English because I have the opportunity to work for an English law firm.
in a way that is certain or fixed
I firmly believe that we must take action on this.
I firmly believe that some of the things you mentioned are wrong.
strongly; in a way that will not become loose
Make sure the rope is firmly attached before attempting to climb down it.
Slowly but firmly I grabbed the door handle, took another quick glance in the room, and turned it.
coming before all others
This is my first trip to New York.
Karen was the first person to arrive.
We met for the first time yesterday.
My first day in college is Monday.
most important, top
Sheila won first prize in the photo competition.
It was good because my cousin played and won the first prize.
when you first see or hear about something or someone
It was love at first sight!
It may, at first sight, seem a surprising choice.
It was love at first sight!
at the start of a situation
Why did you invite her in the first place?
In the first place, you were unknown people for me, but now you are my special foreign friends.
before everything or everyone else
I can come out tonight, but I've got to do my homework first.
I have to go to the dentist first!
before doing anything else
First of all, we swam 200 metres in the pool.
First of all, I bought a new t-shirt, a cool jacket and jeans. After that, I went to the athletics store.
used to introduce the first idea, reason, etc. in a series
First of all, I'd like to ask you a few questions about your childhood.
First of all, thanks for your letter.
used to introduce the first idea, reason, etc. in a series
First, I want to thank my parents.
First, I want to say "Thank you!"
for the first time
When did you first meet each other?
I first heard the song on the radio.
I first heard of it on the radio and then I saw a leaflet about it.
at the beginning of a situation or period of time
At first I thought she was unfriendly, but actually she's just shy.
At first, when I arrived I was very nervous because I didn't know anyone, but then a girl started talking to me and I felt better.
more than anything else
In spite of being elected to office, she remains first and foremost a writer.
First and foremost it is my longing to help others with what they cannot do for themselves.
to be the most important person or thing
Her career always comes first.
They do not take the time to sit down and enjoy being with their family. The work comes first, and the family next.
to consider someone or something to be the most important thing
Most couples put their children first when sorting out their problems.
On the other hand, we forget about our personality and the worth that we have as individuals; we put our wishes first, rather than what we really need in life.
the first person or thing to do or be something, or the first person or thing mentioned
Tonight sees the first of three documentaries about cancer.
She was one of the first to arrive.
He is the first to admit that much of his success is due to his good looks.
I prefer the first because it's an exciting story of a cat that escapes from a dangerous house lived in by an aggressive dog.
to be something that has never happened before
Man walking on the moon was a first in space history.
on the first floor
a first-floor flat/apartment/office
FIRE ripped through the bedroom of a first-floor apartment.
the language that someone learns to speak first
Madeleine's first language is French, but she also speaks German fluently.
Originally I come from Germany and therefore my first language is German.
used to refer to the first thing in a list
There are two very good reasons why we can't do it. Firstly, we don't have enough money, and secondly, we don't have enough time.
I think it would suit us, firstly because it is good work experience, and secondly because we can get discounts on books and CDs.
the personal name that was given to you when you were born and that is not your family's name
It can be rude to call someone by their first name if they are much older or more important than you.
After that he asked the students to introduce themselves, and he easily learned the first names of the students and addressed them by their first name except me and it really annoyed me.
an animal that lives only in water and swims using its tail and fins
Several large fish live in the pond.
Sanjay caught the biggest fish I've ever seen.
We are going to go to an even larger (no, the largest) river to catch fish next week!!
fish eaten as food
fried fish
I don't eat fish or meat.
My favourite food is fish.
to try to catch fish
They're fishing for tuna.
In the countryside the air is pure and you can fish in lakes or walk in fields.
someone who catches fish as a job or as a hobby
Local fishermen are finding it difficult to make a living.
His father was a fisherman and he died working just a few days before he was born, so the child had never met him.
the sport or job of catching fish
My dad loves to go fishing.
salmon fishing
Fishing is still their main source of income.
We can go fishing or hunting.
a hand closed into a ball with the fingers and thumb curled tightly together
He banged his fist down angrily on the table.
He slammed his fists against the door and yelled out several times but to no response.
to be the right size or shape for someone or something
That jacket fits you perfectly.
These jeans don't fit me any more.
I can't find a lid to fit this jar.
Sometimes I like the style and colour but when I wear them I see that they don't fit me.
If people or things fit somewhere, or if you can fit them somewhere, that place is big enough for them.
How many people can you fit in your car?
This radio is small enough to fit into my pocket.
The desk has to be very small and has to fit into the corner, because there is not much space left in my bedroom.
to put or fix something somewhere
All the carpets we sell are fitted free.
You ought to fit a smoke alarm in the kitchen.
The air pollution could be reduced if car manufacturers and companies made people fit effective filters on car exhausts and factory chimneys.
to be the same as or like something
She seems to fit the police description.
The accommodation I had during the trip didn't fit the description in the advertisement and neither did the restaurants or the cultural activities.
to be suitable for something
The punishment should fit the crime.
You ought to put on a formal dress or suit to fit the atmosphere.
healthy and strong, especially as a result of exercise
I joined a gym to get fit.
I jog to keep fit.
You need to be very fit to go mountain climbing.
I'm on holiday in Miami and I've seen a lot of very fit people.
of a good enough quality or suitable type for a particular purpose
Is this water fit to drink?
She's not in a fit state to drive.
It has undergone restoration recently and is now fit to serve as a perfect example of a model and modern British college library.
to do something that you feel is the right thing to do, although other people might disapprove
You must spend the money as you see fit.
Do as you think fit!
the condition of being physically strong and healthy
I'm trying to improve my fitness by cycling to work.
I specially like fitness lessons.
the number 5
Five, four, three, two, one, blast-off!
I work five days a week.
I will finish work at five o'clock.
to repair something
They couldn't fix my old computer, so I bought a new one.
I had an accident yesterday and I need to fix my car.
to decide a certain and exact date, time, place, price, etc.
Shall we fix a time for our next meeting?
They haven't fixed a date for the wedding yet.
If you are busy at that time, you can call them to fix a new date.
to fasten something in position so that it cannot move
We fixed the bookcase to the wall.
The seat was not fixed to the floor properly.
arranged or decided already and not able to be changed
a fixed price
fixed interest rates
Usually you have a fixed time to listen to live music, but what if you are not able to go to the concert?
If your eyes are fixed on something, you are looking at it continuously.
I kept my eyes fixed on his face.
Dozens of eyes were fixed on the sun-burnt, leaden coloured face of the guide, beaming with anticipation.
a piece of cloth with a special design and colours, that is the symbol of a country or a group, or has a particular meaning
the French flag
Flags of all twenty-seven countries are flying outside the building.
The guard waved his flag and the train pulled away from the station.
And about my present from the USA: I really would like to have an authentic American flag, to decorate my bedroom ceiling.
a natural ability to do something well
She has a flair for languages.
She's an artist with a flair for promotion.
when you do something in an exciting and interesting way
He played with great imagination and flair.
If I must describe the service I should say that it is superb: the gentle waiters serve with flair as if it was a culinary cabaret.
hot, bright, burning gas produced by something on fire
The flames grew larger as the fire spread.
When the fire engine arrived the house was already in flames.
We were standing by the window and the flames were getting nearer and nearer.
to suddenly start burning
The car plunged down a hill and burst into flames.
When we turned it on, it burst into flames and before we could extinguish it, the fire destroyed my desk.
to shine brightly and suddenly, or to make something shine in this way
Stop flashing that light in my eyes!
The lightning flashed and distant thunder rolled.
You'd better slow down, that car was flashing (its lights) at you.
As they were driving back, a light flashed, a crash sounded, then screams.
to appear for a short time, or to make something appear for a short time
An icon flashed up on the screen.
to move somewhere fast
The motorcycle flashed past us and around the corner.
The image flashed across my screen.
But one day an idea flashed through her mind.
a sudden bright light
The bomb exploded in a flash of yellow light.
At the same moment, that piece of unknown stuff sent towards me a flash of very bright light!
a piece of camera equipment that produces a bright light when you take a photograph in a dark place
Flash photography is not permitted anywhere in the museum.
immediately, or very quickly
I'll be back in a flash.
He took it and, in a flash, he came up to the surface.
a sudden experience of something such as a feeling or idea
a flash of anger
I had a flash of inspiration.
when you suddenly remember something that happened in the past, often something bad
She suffered from flashbacks for years after the accident.
Margaret started to remember, yes; a sudden flashback brought her to the twenties, when she was still her mamma's little girl, all innocence and curls.
part of a film or book that goes back in time to something that happened before the main story began
There are several flashbacks to the character's childhood.
Another way of increasing the reader's interest is the parallelism of both stories and the flashbacks she is always giving us to explain Olivia's experiences.
a set of rooms for living in which are part of a larger building and are usually all on one floor
a furnished/unfurnished flat
a block of flats
to buy/rent/move into/move out of a flat
They have a house in the country and a flat in London.
I live in a flat.
level and smooth, with no curved, high, or hollow parts
An ice rink needs to be completely flat.
Roll out the pastry on a flat surface.
Much of the countryside in East Anglia is very flat.
The countryside is very flat and for this kind of holiday it's really perfect!!
Flat shoes do not raise your feet far from the ground.
Wear flat shoes - you'll be on your feet all day.
In your last letter you wanted me to tell you about clothes. Well, as you know I'm tall so I always wear flat shoes in light colours like white, light green and blue.
If a tyre, ball, etc. is flat, it does not contain enough air.
When I got to the car, I discovered I had a flat tyre.
I found my bicycle with a flat tyre and realised I would be late instead of early.
If a drink is flat, it does not contain enough bubbles of gas.
This lemonade is flat.
in a level position, often against another surface
Lay the cloth flat across the table.
to fall over so that your face hits the ground, often in an embarrassing way
I stepped on the ice and fell flat on my face.
You can guess what happened next - I fell flat on my face right in the mud and I have never felt more embarrassed in my life!
If an event or joke falls flat, it fails to have the effect that you wanted, such as making people laugh.
All the jokes in his speech fell flat.
The cultural visits fell flat in comparison to their expectations, although the sightseeing tour of Willstown was, as the students said, "fascinating".
to become flat or to make something become flat
Roll out the dough into balls and flatten them slightly.
Another thing they accomplished was to stop people cutting down trees because they wanted to flatten the land.
how food or drink tastes, or a particular taste itself
Add a little salt to bring out the flavour of the herbs.
My fish was delicious but Juan's beef had almost no flavour.
We sell 32 different flavours of ice cream.
The only downside of our grandparents' diet was a lack of choice: there wasn't all this variety we have today, like "zillions" of flavours of ice-cream.
a particular quality or style that something has
London has a very international flavour.
People of different colours, smells, and cultures, musicians, funny shows on the pavement for a pound, hippies, homeless people doing hairwraps, tattooing tourists' limbs, selling earrings... there, you could live a hundred experiences without moving an inch and you could go back home with a real flavour of the Festival.
a mistake or bad characteristic that stops someone or something from being perfect
There's a flaw in your reasoning.
However, there were some minor flaws which I would like to give my view on.
not perfect, or containing mistakes
Diamonds are still valuable, even when they are flawed.
His argument is deeply flawed.
Some people see society as it stands today as inherently flawed, an amorphous group of people who follow and worship anyone that gives them pleasure and empty dreams of perfection.
with no mistakes or bad characteristics
a flawless complexion
All in all, it is a classic comedy with memorable dialogue and flawless performances.
to leave a place quickly because you are in danger or are afraid
Police think the suspect has now fled the country.
Of course most people on those boats were fleeing their country for religious or political reasons but I would have left Europe for the spirit of adventure.
a group of ships, or all of the ships in a country's navy
The entire naval fleet was used for the operation.
The Spartans order the people of Athens to destroy their city walls and most of their remaining fleet.
a group of vehicles that are owned and controlled by one person or organization
a fleet of aircraft/cars
In a simplified scenario one can consider when one has a fleet of cars, some manual and other automatic, and a pool of drivers who can only drive one type of car.
the soft part of a person's or animal's body between the skin and bones
Large thorns dug into my flesh.
It smelled of rotting flesh.
a member of your family
I can't hate him - he's my own flesh and blood.
On the other hand, another problem old people have to face is a feeling of not being useful to society and what proves this is that they are put into old people's homes even by their own flesh and blood.
the ability to change or be changed easily according to the situation
The advantage of this system is its flexibility.
Further personal strengths are good communication skills, being a good team player and flexibility.
able to change or be changed easily according to the situation
My schedule is quite flexible - I could arrange to meet with you any day next week.
I'd like a job with more flexible working hours.
In the advertisement it is said that you will have a lot of spare time but actually, you have flexible working hours and you never know whether you will have free time.
able to bend or to be bent easily
The cover is made of flexible plastic.
Dancers and gymnasts need to be very flexible.
Another physical requirement is a flexible body. Flexibility and agility will be crucial factors in whether you will succeed or not.
to look quickly at the pages of a magazine, book, etc.
I was just flicking through a magazine.
Last week I happened to flick through a classical music magazine and was lucky enough to see an ad saying that the artist, or the pianist-conductor, would be performing all Beethoven's symphonies and piano concertos with the orchestra from next January.
a journey through air or space in an aircraft or other vehicle
I'll never forget my first flight.
How was your flight?
All flights to New York today are delayed because of bad weather.
My flight was cancelled/delayed.
I would like to rest because the flight will be very boring.
a set of stairs
The lift was broken so we had to climb six flights of stairs.
He still blamed himself for hitting his little girl and making her fall down a flight of stairs and injuring her spine.
to stay on the surface of a liquid and not sink, or to make something do this
Leaves were floating on the surface.
We spent a lazy afternoon floating along/down the river.
He tossed the bottle into the waves and watched it float out to sea.
Finally we were floating on the sea, admiring the famous bay.
to stay in the air, or move gently through the air
Fluffy white clouds were floating across the sky.
The sound of piano-playing floated out through the open window.
Suddenly, I saw a "thing" floating by the window, making noises and like nothing human.
If a place floods or is flooded, it becomes covered in water.
The town was flooded when the river burst its banks.
Our washing machine broke down yesterday and flooded the kitchen.
The city was flooded and too many people were dead.
to fill or enter a place in large numbers or amounts
She drew back the curtains and the sunlight came flooding in.
Shoppers flooded into the store on the first morning of the sale.
The Square is flooded with local merchants selling local food, folkloric clothing, and local wines.
a large amount of water covering an area that is usually dry
After the flood it took weeks for the water level to go down.
It was windy and raining with lots of floods.
a large number or amount of things or people that arrive at the same time
a flood of letters/calls
The sea of familiar faces brought a flood of memories rushing back.
a surface that you walk on inside a building
a wooden/tiled floor
The bathroom floor needs cleaning.
The children sat playing on the floor.
Lily gave me a small toy cat. It can walk on the floor.
a particular level of a building
This building has five floors.
Take the elevator to the 51st floor.
We live on the third floor.
a ground floor/first-floor apartment
The new art class is on Tuesday on the first floor with Mrs. Keller.
an area where a particular activity happens
a dance floor
It has got a very big dance floor with a skillful jazz band.
soft and loose or hanging down loosely
a floppy hat
That puppy was the cutest thing: a tiny body, with floppy ears, a curious wet nose that wanted to sniff everything on its way, and huge cheerful eyes.
powder made from grain, especially wheat, used for making bread, cakes, pasta, pastry, etc.
Add the flour to the eggs and milk.
He told the family that it was arsenic in the flour.
to grow or develop well
The company soon began to flourish under his expert management.
If parents try to understand why their children act the way they do and treat them with love and affection, then teenagers will flourish like flowers in the spring sunshine!
If something such as a liquid flows, it moves somewhere in a smooth, continuous way.
The river flows from the Andes into the Pacific Ocean.
With fewer cars on the roads, traffic is flowing more smoothly than usual.
There are many lakes around there, all made by the melted ice that flows down the mountains.
when something flows in one direction
the flow of a river
the flow of traffic
So, a possible solution is to build more roads and optimally design the roads and their subways, to make the flow of cars on the road quicker.
to do or accept what other people are doing because it is the easiest thing to do
Just relax and go with the flow!
At this stage of her progress towards knowing herself better she has accepted that life is a muddle and that to a certain extent one has to go with the flow.
the attractive, coloured part of a plant where the seeds grow
wild flowers
to pick/cut flowers
a bunch of flowers
You know I like flowers a lot.
an infectious illness which is like a very bad cold, but which causes a fever
a flu virus
I had the flu last week.
I hope you're fine and you don't have the flu any more.
to keep changing, especially in level or amount
Oil prices have fluctuated wildly in recent weeks.
About 60% of people aged between 35-49 liked going to the cinema at least once a year in 1990 and the percentages grew steadily to 1996, but afterwards, it fluctuated a bit.
when someone is fluent in a language
One of the requirements of the job is fluency in two or more African languages.
So it is of the utmost importance for me to go to England in the very near future in order to improve my fluency in English.
able to use a language naturally without stopping or making mistakes
She's fluent in French.
He's a fluent Russian speaker.
I am fluent in French and English.
produced or done in a smooth, natural style
He speaks fluent Chinese.
I speak fluent English and German.
in a way that is fluent
I'd like to speak English fluently.
I can speak both English and Japanese fluently.
a liquid
cleaning fluid
Drink plenty of fluids.
Healthy eating habits consist of lots of fruit and vegetables, calcium-rich products such as milk or cheese and plenty of fluids.
smooth and continuous
fluid movements
The third-person narration is fluid and delicate and enables us to gradually discover the characters' personalities and their reactions to the situations they are involved in.
a musical instrument in the shape of a tube that is held out to the side and played by blowing across a hole at one end
Ellen started learning the flute at the age of 12.
Now I know the history of the violin, flute, cello, viola, oboe, etc.
to travel through the air in an aircraft
I'm flying to Mumbai tomorrow.
We fly from/out from Heathrow, but fly back into Gatwick.
I'm flying to Poland with my daughter.
When a bird, insect or aircraft flies, it moves through the air.
The plane was flying at 5000 feet.
The poor bird couldn't fly because it had a broken wing.
As soon as it saw us, the bird flew away/off.
The birds fly in the sky.
to control an aircraft or other vehicle in air or space
She learned to fly at the age of 18.
Louise, you are the only one who can fly this spaceship now.
with a very high score or with great success
He passed the entrance exam with flying colours.
I worked intensively on the course and I passed with flying colours.
If time flies, it passes very quickly.
There was plenty to do, and the time flew.
But you have to enjoy it because time flies, and you will be old before you know it!
to take or send people or goods somewhere by aircraft
She was flown to hospital by helicopter.
All supplies are flown in daily from Paris in order to ensure the highest quality available.
to be the opposite of what is usual or accepted
These recommendations fly in the face of previous advice on safe limits of consumption.
But when we have a look outside our wonderful world, we can easily see that this argument flies in the face of the facts.
a small insect with two wings
There were a lot of flies around.
In the afternoon we were just lying like dead flies on our beds.
the person or thing that is getting most attention in a situation or activity
He is the focus of a police investigation.
In any family, a baby tends to be the focus of attention.
The focus of the human being and society is changing, such that more resources are put into building roads, controlling traffic and aiming at having the best transportation system as possible, while giving less attention to the more important areas of a society's well-being such as health and education.
when you give special attention to something
Their main focus must be on reducing crime.
The media focus on politicians' private lives switches the attention away from the real issues.
The focus on their careers makes them forget about their co-workers, which creates a harsh and cold work environment.
to give a lot of attention to one particular person, subject or thing
Tonight's programme focuses on the way that homelessness affects the young.
When the kitchen is finished I'm going to focus my attention on the garden and get that sorted out.
As you have probably guessed already, we are mainly interested in action movies and movies that focus on brutality and aggression.
thick cloud just above the ground or sea that makes it difficult to see
Thick/Heavy fog has made driving conditions dangerous.
It took several hours for the fog to clear/lift.
Imagine, in the morning there was fog, and it was a cold day.
with fog
a foggy day
It was a foggy afternoon and I was at home.
If you fold paper, cloth, etc., you bend it so that one part of it lies flat on top of another part.
I folded the letter in half and put it in an envelope.
Will you help me to fold up the sheets?
He had a neatly folded handkerchief in his jacket pocket.
And the next morning, I was here again to help them folding their stuff.
a piece of plastic or thick paper folded down the middle and used to hold loose papers
I keep all my bank statements in this folder.
I think I forgot my folder in your house.
a place on a computer where particular files are kept
I made a new folder on the C drive.
Computers are very important because we work with them, and we keep our secret folders and files in them.
music written and played in a traditional style
There are several venues for folk and jazz in the city.
I can sing most kinds of songs, such as pop music, folk.
the traditional style of art, dancing, etc. among a particular group of people
She's studied the folk art of the region.
There are a lot of folk stories in Lithuania, and I would like to tell you one of them.
to move behind someone or something and go where they go
A dog followed us home.
She followed me into the kitchen.
He had the feeling he was being followed.
I'll wait for you in the central square and you can follow me.
to travel along a road, path, etc.
Follow the main road down to the traffic lights.
You can get to my house by following the road from the corner which is next to the playground.
to happen or come after something
There was a bang, followed by a cloud of smoke.
The meal consisted of smoked salmon, followed by Welsh lamb.
We were not prepared for the events that followed.
In the first lesson we started with some games, followed by work activities, like role plays and presentations.
to do what someone or something says you should do
Follow the instructions on the back of the packet carefully.
I decided to follow her advice and go to bed early.
I was just following orders.
I think I should follow her advice, shouldn't I?
to understand something
Could you repeat that? I didn't quite follow what you said.
It is very hard to follow the lesson because I can't concentrate on the vocabulary.
used to introduce a list or description
The main reasons are as follows.
The summary of relevant points and recommendations are as follows: 1. Both of them are located in the centre of town.
to be interested in an event or activity and watch its progress
I followed the trial closely.
I was happy to know you follow our national news.
used to say that if one thing is true, another thing will also be true
He's big, but it doesn't follow that he's strong.
It follows that they too do not have enough time.
to copy someone's behaviour or ideas
You should follow Meg's example and tidy your room.
Thus they are encouraged to follow their example and change their character for ever.
to do the same job or the same things in your life as someone else, especially a member of your family
He followed in his father's footsteps and became an actor.
Her step-granddaughter gets fascinated with Olivia's story and this fascination draws her to India to follow in her footsteps.
to do the same as someone else has just done
If other shops lower their prices, we will have to follow suit.
Bitten by a insurmountable curiosity she goes to India to find out about her and she even follows suit: she ends up in the Himalayas driven by a strong desire to know more.
someone who believes in a particular person or set of ideas
a follower of Jesus
Having been a devoted follower of the GDR's political system and having spent the collapse of this very system in a coma in hospital, once she wakes up, Christane has to be sheltered from the new developments.
after or as a result of
Following the dinner, there will be a dance.
He died on October 23rd, following several years of illness.
Following the course in England, I worked in an office that sells computer programs and games as a secretary to earn money and with the help of this job, I gained experience in office work.
the next day/morning, etc.
We met again the following afternoon.
I could give it back to you the following day.
what comes next, often used to introduce a list, report, etc.
The following is an extract from her diary.
Regarding your questions, the following are my answers.
to like someone or something
She was very fond of horses.
I'm very fond of her.
My brother is fond of pointing out my mistakes.
My boyfriend is very fond of cycling.
expressing or causing happy feelings
Many of us have fond memories of our childhoods.
I will keep fond memories of the two nights I have spent with you.
something that people and animals eat, or plants absorb, to keep them alive
baby food
Thai food
to cook/prepare food
There was lots of food at the party.
I'd like to eat Italian food, maybe lasagne.
a stupid person
I was a fool to trust him.
I felt a complete fool.
He's a fool if he thinks she's interested.
When I heard my favourite song, I jumped like a crazy fool and everybody looked at me.
to make someone look stupid intentionally
She was always trying to make a fool out of me in front of my friends.
He thought I had tried to make a fool of him but no, I was really desperate to get him as my boyfriend.
to behave in a silly or embarrassing way
I got very excited and made a fool of myself.
I had to leave that shop in full embarrassment and I also made a fool of myself.
to trick someone
Don't be fooled by his appearance.
She said she was doing it to help me but I wasn't fooled.
Tim was fooled into believing that he'd won a lot of money.
I don't like to be fooled.
stupid and not wise
It would be foolish to pay more.
I thought I might look foolish if I refused.
She looked foolish because of the mistakes she had made.
in a foolish way, or because of being foolish
Foolishly, I didn't write the phone number down.
I was fourteen and foolishly in love with a blonde girl in my class to whom I had only spoken twice.
one of the two flat parts on the ends of your legs that you stand on
I've hurt my left foot.
bare feet
Then, in just a few minutes, we are going to put our feet in the hot sand.
walking
Are you going by bicycle or on foot?
It isn't far away from the main building - it's about 15 minutes on foot.
a unit of measurement, equal to twelve inches or 0.3048 metres
The man was standing only a few feet away.
She is five feet three inches tall.
The room is about 150 square feet, rectangular in shape, with a window opposite the door and a pair of sliding doors to the balcony at one end.
the bottom of something such as stairs, a hill, a bed, or a page
Put the notes at the foot of the page.
Every year, expedition-groups from almost every country meet at the foot of the highest mountain in the world to conquer it.
to go into a place or onto a piece of land
He told me never to set foot in his house again.
I dream of being the first one to set foot on a white sandy beach, to admire a new kind of vegetation: cranberry bushes, sweet potatoes, wild turkeys, a different climate; how scary and exciting at the same time!
to tell someone in a strong way that they must do something or must stop doing something
I decided to put my foot down with my staff and insist that they do not send personal emails in work time.
Finally, I would like to appeal to other readers of the 'Cyprus Weekly', who might even be living near my area, to put your foot down and apply any pressure you can on people who can do something about the situation.
to say something silly or embarrassing, without intending to
I really put my foot in it with your mum - I didn't know she was a teacher herself.
I had really put my foot in it by telling Richard that it would better for him not to come to the party.
to start a relationship or activity badly
He got off on the wrong foot with my parents by arriving late.
One of the greatest pleasures of reading "The Remains of the Day" would be to see the gradual development of the relationship between Stevens and Miss Kenton. From the beginning, they get off on the wrong foot.
to stand up after you have been sitting
The audience rose to their feet.
The capacity crowd rose to their feet to cheer Dylan and his band; since then I understood why his fans worship him like a god.
to relax, especially by sitting with your feet supported above the ground
Put your feet up for half an hour before the kids get home.
You have done your work and now you can put your feet up.
a game in which two teams of players kick a round ball and try to score goals
a football player/team/club/shirt
He's playing football.
Are you coming to the football match?
I'm a big football fan.
I got two tickets for the football match.
a large ball made of leather or plastic and filled with air, used in games of football
They were kicking around a football.
I'll get a new football for you.
someone who plays football, especially as their job
Her cousin is a professional footballer.
I want to be a footballer like Beckham one day.
the sound of a foot hitting the ground when someone walks
I heard footsteps behind me and quickly turned round.
In Stockholm people walk - the streets are thick with people and you can even hear their footsteps!
to do the same job or the same things in your life as someone else, especially a member of your family
He followed in his father's footsteps and became an actor.
Her step-granddaughter gets fascinated with Olivia's story and this fascination draws her to India to follow in her footsteps.
intended to be given to or used by someone or something
There's a phone message for you.
I'd better buy something for the new baby.
This is my information for you.
used to show an amount of time or distance
She's out of the office for a few days next week.
I'm just going to rest for an hour or so.
I haven't played tennis for years.
We drove for miles without seeing anyone.
I had a break for 20 minutes.
used to give an example of the type of thing you mean
I like soft fruit, for example, peaches and plums.
Some people, students for example, can get cheaper tickets.
Also he likes to do sports, for example swimming and cycling.
having a particular purpose
There's a sign there saying 'boats for hire'.
Which vitamins should you take for skin problems?
You need to bring your exercise book for art.
in order to get or achieve something
I hate waiting for public transport.
I had to run for the bus.
Did you send off for details of the competition?
I've applied for a job with another computer company.
It's important to me because I'm going to study for an exam.
in exchange for something, especially an amount of money
How much did you pay for your glasses?
She sold the house for quite a lot of money.
They've said they'll repair my car for £300.
I'm selling it for 100 Euro.
on the occasion of
What did you buy him for Christmas?
We're having a party for Jim's 60th birthday.
I'm tired because I had a party yesterday for my birthday.
at a particular time
I've booked a table at the restaurant for nine o'clock.
We can give you an appointment for 10.15.
Can we rearrange the time for five o'clock?
because of or as a result of something
He got fined for travelling without a ticket.
The things you do for love!
Scotland is famous for its beautiful countryside.
He's best remembered for his novels.
It is famous for "paella" but we have many different kinds of food.
showing meaning
What's the Czech word for 'book'?
"What does J.L. stand for?" "José Luis."
towards or in the direction of
They looked as if they were heading for the train station.
Just follow signs for the town centre.
This time tomorrow we'll be setting off for the States.
It says this train is for Birmingham and Coventry only.
available to buy
Is this painting for sale?
Our neighbours put their house up for sale last week.
For sale: "Olympus" camera + bag.
in order to help someone
I'll carry those bags for you.
I'd like to do something helpful for them.
being employed by or representing a company, country, etc.
She works for a charity.
He plays football for Cambridge United.
He used to swim for his country when he was younger.
He works for a company in Mexico.
always in the future
I'm not going to live here for ever.
My friend was leaving the city for ever and going to a city in another country.
for pleasure and not for any other reason
I ran but just for fun.
Fortunately I discovered that the email wasn't for me. I didn't appreciate that there were people that were sending things like that just for fun.
without any doubts
I think he's Canadian but I don't know for sure.
One thing's for sure - once the baby's born, your lives will never be the same again.
For sure, you'll love Brazil.
for example
In the electronics industry, for instance, 5000 jobs are being lost.
For instance, you can do mountain walks.
in support of or in agreement with
I voted for the Greens at the last election.
So let's hear some applause for these talented young performers.
There are a lot of votes for and against keeping animals in cages.
If you do something for the moment, you are doing it now, but might do something different in the future.
Let's carry on with what we agreed for the moment.
For the moment I am unemployed so I have plenty of time to give you a hand.
used to mean that something is happening that does not usually happen
For once, the bus came on time.
We would take lots of pictures, and play our own instruments, and if we get lucky enough, we would even touch the very stones and for once be embraced by magic itself.
taken seriously, not pretended
I thought it was just a practice, but apparently it was for real.
You know I am a Casanova, but this time I know it is for real.
used to say whose responsibility something is
I can't tell you whether you should go or not - that's for you to decide.
It is for you to decide whether my colleagues should take part in this kind of course or not, but all in all I would like to recommend this course.
when compared to a particular fact
She's quite tall for her age.
She spends all day indoors "stuffing" her craving for knowledge with books quite hard for her age.
forever
When he was 20, he left home for good.
He was renting this property previously, but he went back to Sri Lanka for good.
for the whole of someone's life
I will have to take this medicine for life.
A wedding opens a new life when the two parties commit to each other for life.
for a long time
Have you been waiting for long?
There're departures every half an hour to the city centre, so you won't have to wait for long.
mostly or usually
I enjoyed it for the most part.
First of all, for the most part, people have to use computers in their jobs.
for now but not permanently
I'm living with my parents for the time being.
Leave the ironing for the time being - I'll do it later.
I think that is all for the time being.
used when you are giving the first in a list of reasons or things
I won't be going - I've got too much homework for a start.
So this creates an awareness of the obligation to look after oneself for a start.
despite
For all her qualifications, she's useless at the job.
For all of his desire to be strong, Okonkwo is haunted by fear.
in order to help someone
We bought the piano for the children's benefit.
Needless to say, I hope you take all this into consideration not only for Gustavo's benefit, but also for the benefit of the astronaut training programme and the world.
If something is for the best, it seems unpleasant now, but will improve a situation in the future.
Divorce is always painful, but it really was for the best.
It's a kind of sad thing to think about but maybe it's for the best.
because you are worried about something/doing something
I didn't want to move for fear of waking her up.
No one dared to turn around for fear of being bitterly disappointed.
used to give a reason for something
You can't give Amy that shirt - for one thing it's too small for her.
Well, for one thing, you cannot spy on your subjects 24 hours a day - they would not allow it, and it would be prohibitively expensive.
to order someone not to do something, or to say that something must not happen
I forbid you to see that boy again!
The law forbids the sale of cigarettes to underage people.
He is forbidden from leaving the country.
But the worst effect is when someone is driving a car and is at the same time talking on a mobile phone: today, there is a law which forbids it.
not allowed, especially by law
Smoking is forbidden in the cinema.
She explained to me how this school works, what is allowed and what is forbidden.
physical strength or power
The force of the wind had brought down a great many trees in the area.
The army seized power by force.
Teachers aren't allowed to use force in controlling their pupils.
I understood that someone had entered my house by force and had stolen my television.
a group of people organized to work together for a particular purpose, for example in military service
the security forces
the work force
He joined the police force straight after school.
Donald Wood was risking his life and that of his family in the process of reporting the vile crimes of the SA. police force.
power and influence, or a person or thing that has it
the forces of good/evil
Each boy is a battleground where the forces of confusion wage war on the forces of good.
a very powerful person or organization
His Dad is a force to be reckoned with.
No longer a remote, backward, unimportant country, it became a force to be reckoned with in Europe.
When two people or groups join forces, they act or work together.
She joined forces with her sister-in-law to set up a restaurant.
The second proposal is that we join forces with Green Peace in picketing the refinery, this of course is up to the individual members.
If a law, rule, etc. is in force, it is being used, and if it comes into force, it starts to be used.
The new law came into force in April.
Perhaps with the coming of the millennium, new laws would come into force and less corruption would do people a lot of good and perhaps the dream of a better and blooming future would become a reality with peace all over the planet.
to make someone do something that they do not want to do
You can't force her to make a decision.
I had to force myself to finish the match.
I didn't actually want any more dessert, but Julia forced it on me.
By participating in such games you force yourself to do your best.
to use physical strength or effort to make something move or open
Move your leg up gently when you're doing this exercise, but don't force it.
If you force the zip, it'll break.
She forced the window open.
They forced the door, entered the house and found Mary under the effect of drugs and her boyfriend on the floor dead.
expressing opinions strongly and demanding attention or action
a forceful manner/personality
But she was a forceful woman who knew how to deal with her problems.
a report saying what the weather is likely to be like
The weather forecast said it was going to rain later today.
The weather forecast is not so good for the next two days: rain and wind.
the flat part of the face, above the eyes and below the hair
She's got a high forehead.
Suddenly, the girl found herself in front of the man, holding a gun against her forehead.
belonging or connected to a country which is not your own
Spain was the first foreign country she had visited.
foreign languages
His work provided him with the opportunity for a lot of foreign travel.
You know I have got a friend in Germany, but I want to meet more foreign people.
relating to or dealing with countries that are not your own
foreign policy
the Foreign Minister
She is also extraordinary in that she graduated from Harvard University and Tokyo University and used to work for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a senior civil servant.
to be something you know nothing about or do not understand
The concept of loyalty is completely foreign to him.
But, vulgarity was foreign to his nature and he seemed to be merely a shy man.
a person who comes from another country
I was so obviously a foreigner.
I started my new English class last week, because I really want to master English for my dream, to teach Japanese for foreigners.
more than anything else
In spite of being elected to office, she remains first and foremost a writer.
First and foremost it is my longing to help others with what they cannot do for themselves.
most important
He's one of the country's foremost experts on military law.
At the beginning of Lord of the flies we find out about one of the main characters, whose foremost feature is the fact that he is "different from the other boys".
to expect a future situation or event
I don't foresee any problems in the future.
Our duty is to foresee any complication before it appears.
as far in the future as you can imagine
Prices will remain high for the foreseeable future.
But in my view these same jobs will find themselves subjected to the same pressures and thus will have the same destiny in the foreseeable future.
a large area of trees growing closely together
the Black Forest
The children got lost in the forest.
I would like to go for a walk in the forest.
for all time in the future
I'll love you forever.
I'll keep it forever in my memory!
for an extremely long time or too much time
We'd better walk a bit quicker - it's going to take forever if we go this slowly.
It would take forever.
an illegal copy of a document, painting, etc.
The passport was clearly a forgery.
the crime of making an illegal copy of something
The doctor was convicted on two charges of forgery.
Frank remembered his dark past, when he committed forgery.
remember
Don't forget your homework!
Don't forget to lock the door.
Don't forget that classes start at 2.0 this afternoon.
And please don't forget the dessert!
to not bring something with you because you did not remember it
I've forgotten my keys.
I forgot my wallet yesterday.
to not remember to do something
I've forgotten to phone Jan.
Dad's always forgetting to take his pills.
I nearly forgot to tell you that the film is going to be on TV on the 15th of August.
to be unable to remember a fact, something that happened, or how to do something
I'm sorry, I've forgotten your name.
I completely forgot about Gemma's party.
I've forgotten what you do next.
I've forgotten how to operate this thing.
She'd forgotten that Lucy was coming round.
Although I finished intermediate class last month, I really want to learn English and I wouldn't like to forget what I have just learnt.
to stop thinking about someone or something
I'll never forget him for as long as I live.
But there are two things that I'll never forget: the taste of ostrich meat and egg, and the dolphins in the wonderful ocean.
used to tell someone not to worry about something as it is not important
"I'm sorry I missed your birthday." "Forget it, it doesn't matter."
The teacher finally told me: "Forget it, it doesn't matter", and I felt so stupid that I couldn't do anything save going away.
used instead of 'I have forgotten'
I forget when we last saw him.
At one of those family gatherings in our house - I forget what the precise occasion was, because it is quite some time ago - all of us were sitting round the big square table in our dining room and enjoying the delicious cakes that my mother had prepared the day before, while we exchanged the latest news.
to decide not to be angry with someone for something they have done, or not to punish them for something they have done
She never forgave her mother for lying to her.
He had betrayed her and she never forgave him.
I'd never forgive myself if anything happened to the kids.
I will never forgive him.
used before you ask or say something that might seem rude
Forgive me for asking, but how much did you pay for your bag?
Forgive me if I have made it seem so funny, but I'm telling you you should have seen his face.
when you forgive someone for something they have done
They begged her for forgiveness.
She gave me a panicked look of abashment and begged for my forgiveness.
a small object with three or four points and a handle, that you use to pick up food and eat with
a knife and fork.
I like a clean fork and knife.
a document with spaces for you to write information
an application form
an entry form
Please fill in/out the form with black ink.
When you have completed the form, hand it in at the desk.
My job application form is in that file.
a way of writing or saying a word that shows if it is singular or plural, past or present, etc.
The continuous form of 'stand' is 'standing'.
'Hers' is the possessive form of 'her'.
'Isn't' is the short form of 'is not'.
a school class or group of classes for students of the same age or ability
He's in the third form.
I was about 11 years old and I was in the sixth and last form of elementary.
a type of something
Swimming is the best form of exercise.
a rare form of cancer
Bicycle fans say that cycling is a very good form of exercise.
the particular way in which something appears or exists
The novel is written in the form of a series of letters.
The medicine comes in the form of a liquid or pills.
For all this, I can only say that I want my money back immediately, or some compensation in the form of a real trip to a real country.
If someone is in form or on form, they are feeling or performing well, and if they are off form they are not feeling or performing well.
Harry was on good form last night.
to make something by combining different parts
In English, you form the present participle by adding -ing to the verb.
to begin to exist or to make something begin to exist
We are learning more about how stars are formed.
A solution began to form in her mind.
You are only attached to material values and your life-style is formed by earning money.
to start an organization or business
She formed her own company eleven years ago.
Many organizations were formed to protect the now endangered species, and people began to ask themselves: are zoos necessary?
to take or to make something take a particular shape
Hold hands and form a circle.
Form the dough into little balls.
The girl's mother had baked the biggest cake the little girl had ever seen and covered it with a lot of cream and 10 candles which formed a heart in the middle.
to begin to have a particular opinion or idea about something because of the information you have
I formed the opinion that I was not really welcome there any more.
Young people are at the mercy of several ideological spectrums that dominate them and prevent them from forming an objective opinion.
to be the thing talked about or be part of it
The Alps form a natural barrier between Italy and Switzerland.
Her diary forms the basis of the book.
Someone tried to drink the water that had formed a puddle on the ground but ended up with a mouthful of moist yellow-tinted mud.
describes language, clothes and behaviour that are serious and correct
a formal dinner party
You don't need to wear formal clothes.
Formal education, training, etc. happens through studying rather than working in a job.
Tom had little formal schooling.
I never had any formal training in computers but I know how to operate the system, to make files and to use the internet.
public or official
a formal announcement/apology
For that reason, I have to ask you for a formal apology in print, where you could give the correct version of events and also change the bad image you gave to the readers of the people of my organisation.
officially
The deal will be formally announced on Tuesday.
First of all I'll tell you a little about the ceremony. It's usually held in a church, (in our case, a Catholic one as we are Catholics); the priest reads some parts of the Bible to the bridegroom (that's usually chosen before with the couple); then they exchange rings and they'll be formally married.
in a polite way
They shook hands formally.
On New Year's Day all members in a family got together (members who lived separately came home), greeted each other more formally than usual, and ate the special food.
the way something is designed, arranged, or produced
This year's event will have a new format.
There is one particular format which has been consistently on air almost without any adjustments: the soap opera.
the development of something into a particular thing or shape
the formation of a crystal
Due to the heat from the sun, the sea water evaporates and this leads to the formation of clouds as the water condenses as it gets higher.
when something has a particular shape or things are arranged in a particular way
rock/cloud formations
The planes flew overhead in formation.
The cave had the most incredible ice formation I had ever seen.
happening, existing or true in the past but not now
his former wife
a former employer
the former president of the United States
And in my town there is also a new Italian restaurant. It's owned by my mother's former colleague.
the first of two people, things or groups previously mentioned
Of the two suggestions, I prefer the former.
The former is a Chinese restaurant and the latter an Indian.
in the past
The European Union was formerly called the European Community.
He was a hero in Japan, formerly known as the ungifted pupil from Switzerland.
strong, powerful, and a bit frightening
a formidable woman
I suppose that this optimism supports her formidable pioneer-spirit and energy.
difficult and needing a lot of effort or thought
a formidable task
You could feel like a fish out of water whenever you are with your colleagues or find yourself out of place and being depressed when faced with formidable tasks which are not appealing to you at all.
a plan or method that is used to achieve something
There's no magic formula for success.
Every member of his company works as a group, rather than an individual, which is the main formula for his company's success.
a set of letters, numbers, or symbols that are used to express a mathematical or scientific rule
a mathematical formula
The teacher will play a role in explaining new terminology to the trainees and give a clue as to how different scientific equations and formulae are being used.
to develop all the details of a plan for doing something
They formulated a plan to save the company.
Having discussed this matter, we formulated three basic suggestions and we evaluated the advantages of each of them.
to say what you think or feel after thinking carefully
to formulate an answer/reply
Montag is now thinking by himself and realises that he is able to formulate his own opinion.
happening soon
We have just received the information about the forthcoming conference.
I am writing this letter so as to give you the information which will help you organize all the necessary details of the forthcoming holiday.
If money or help is forthcoming, it is offered or given.
He insisted that no more money would be forthcoming.
For all these reasons, I'm sure you realise that I deserve at the very minimum to be refunded all the money I spent on the trip and unless this is forthcoming, I shall take the matter a step further.
a period of two weeks
a fortnight's holiday
once a fortnight
a fortnight ago
I need it only for a fortnight to visit my Grandfather. I'm going to return it on 23rd of December.
lucky
You're very fortunate to have found such a lovely house.
It was fortunate that they had left in plenty of time.
He was fortunate in his choice of assistant.
I was fortunate in that I had the chance to be with children on a daily basis and learn to communicate with them.
happening because of good luck
Fortunately, we got home before it started to rain.
At the moment, fortunately, the weather is fine and sunny.
a lot of money
She made a fortune selling her story to the newspapers.
He lost a fortune gambling.
His clothes cost a fortune.
It really made it easier for me and it would have cost me a fortune to stay in a hotel.
the good or bad things that happen to you
The family's fortunes changed almost overnight.
I had the good fortune to meet her.
Everyone was rejoicing over her good fortune and she even thought that the gods up above were happy for her.
the number 40
thirty, forty, fifty
He looks about forty.
There were about forty people.
to be aged between 40 and 49
By the time I'm in my forties, I want to be running my own business.
The man was in his early forties and he looked to be a very important man.
the years from 1940-1949
Most of these people were born in the forties.
So, I would like you to consider buying some English comedies, like those Ealing Studios made in the late forties and the fifties.
towards the direction that is in front of you
She leaned forward to whisper something in my ear.
I had to try once again to take a step forward, gently I took a step forward.
towards the future
I always look forward, not back.
I want you to look a bit forward, try to imagine how you will feel in one or two years' time.
used to say that something is making progress
This is a big step forward for democracy.
For us, this would be a big step forward and a perfect motivation for the accountants.
very dirty, or with an unpleasant smell
the foul smell of rotting fish
Each day early in the morning, a group of twenty persons picked up the rubbish and when we went out to go to work, the streets were as clean as if there was no strike. Anyway we had to do that if we wanted to "survive" in this foul atmosphere.
very rude and offensive words
There was a lot of foul language in the movie.
It is the responsibility of the parents not to fight or use any foul language in front of the kids, as they may learn and use it in front of others.
very bad or unpleasant
foul weather
She's in a foul mood.
It reappeared only in moments of distraction and served exclusively to increase her foul mood.
something that someone does in a sport that is not allowed by the rules
He was sent off for a vicious foul on Cooper.
If that happens, the referee has the right to interrupt the game by blowing his whistle and saying that that team has committed a foul.
to bring something into existence
York was founded by the Romans in the year 71 AD.
The company was founded in 1861.
Red Stone was founded ten years ago.
to base something on a set of ideas or beliefs
a society founded on principles of equality
While Piggy is holding the conch, the symbol of a human community, founded on discussion, agreement and rules, and speaking up to Jack, Roger sets the rock in motion which destroys Piggy and his conch.
when an organization, state, or country is established
the foundation of a new state
Moreover the foundation of schools and stadiums will benefit young people.
an organization that gives money for a particular purpose
the Mental Health Foundation
A memorable event I recently attended was the Barbie Ball which was held at the National History Museum in London on 1st December, to benefit the Elton John Aids Foundation.
the idea or principle that something is based on
Jefferson's document formed the foundation of a new nation.
Love, understanding and respect will be the foundation of the upbringing of my children.
If something is without foundation, there is no proof that it is true.
The allegations are completely without foundation.
someone who establishes an organization, movement, etc.
She was one of the founders of the women's movement.
Moreover, this widely recognised person is not only known as a founder of Microsoft, the richest man on the planet, but also as someone who decided to give almost a half of his money to a charity and this may help many people suffering from diseases.
a structure that forces water up into the air as a decoration
There is a beautiful fountain in the middle of the square.
The place I enjoyed the most was the park, because it had a nice atmosphere with all those happy kids, and the most terrific fountain I've ever seen.
the number 4
Most animals have four legs.
We need four people to make up a team.
He works four days and has four days off.
the number 14
twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen
Her baby is fourteen months old.
Several days ago I had my birthday and I am now fourteen.
4th written as a word
My birthday is on the fourth of December.
Daniel finished fourth in the race.
The new art class is in classroom A on the fourth floor.
a wild animal like a dog with red-brown fur, a pointed nose, and a long, thick tail
A fox came in the night and killed the chickens.
One day, the fox attacked his animals and he shouted as much as he could.
a very small number or amount
a fraction of a second
Both of them hit the wall almost at the same time but, against Hall's prediction, Popou was better by a fraction of a second.
easily broken, damaged, or destroyed
a fragile china cup
a fragile economy
The majority of these countries still have a very fragile economy.
physically or emotionally weak
a fragile little girl
She seemed to be so fragile with an everlasting smile on her face.
a pleasant smell
the delicate fragrance of roses
We were inundated with the fresh air, an untold fragrance mixed with the warm breeze and the unique-styled buildings.
with a pleasant smell
fragrant flowers
From his terrace you can see the marvellous sea of Dublin Bay and appreciate the fragrant odour of the beautiful flowers that embellish the place.
not strong or healthy
a frail old lady
Looking at her, she was frail and looked confused.
a border which surrounds and supports a picture, door or window
a picture/window frame
I'm going to buy picture frames to put the pictures in and I'll put them on the wall, around my table.
the basic structure of a building, vehicle or piece of furniture that other parts are added onto
a bicycle frame
In my bedroom is a big bed with a wood frame and a comfortable mattress.
the way someone feels at a particular time
She was in a much more positive frame of mind today.
Naturally, these are more difficult factors to cope with for older people, but it just happens to anyone if you're not in the right frame of mind.
a system of rules, ideas, or beliefs that is used to plan or decide something
a legal framework for resolving disputes
the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages
They were all trying to do their best in the rigid framework of the existing system (one of them even succeeded in making the difference).
used when giving an honest and direct opinion, often one that might upset someone
Quite frankly, I think this whole situation is ridiculous.
I'm asking this because quite frankly, it's the part of the festival that my friend and I enjoyed the most.
done in a fast and excited way and not calm or organized
a frantic search
Fred started to shiver as frantic images of the past flashed through his mind.
very worried or frightened
frantic calls for help
I got home to find Joe frantic with worry.
Donna's mother had heard her frantic shouts, and now said soothingly: "Have you forgotten Elaine has spent the night at her friend's house?"
when someone does something illegal in order to get money
credit card fraud
Michael was completely speechless when he realized that Claire had all the proof of the fraud he had committed.
someone or something that deceives people by pretending to be someone or something that they are not
She claimed to be a journalist, but she was just a fraud.
My marriage was a fraud, a case of bigamy.
dishonest and illegal
fraudulent insurance claims
This vice increases more and more as fanatics spend more money for sport-related topics, and so, most valuable players become more expensive and then they begin to be involved in cheating and fraudulent activities.
not busy doing anything
Are you free this evening?
I don't have much free time.
I am free this afternoon.
not costing any money
I got some free cinema tickets.
Members all receive a free copy of the monthly newsletter.
We will install your washing machine free of charge.
You don't have to bring any money because it is free.
not limited or controlled
a free society
Am I free to leave now?
People should be free to say what they think.
The agreement gives companies free access to the markets of member countries.
The plan was this: they would call the police, which would trap the man so the child would be free to return to his mother.
not in prison
He will soon be a free man again.
I will regret it for the rest of my life, because I wanted to be a free man...
to allow someone to leave prison or to allow a person or animal to escape
He opened the cage and set the birds free.
To sum up, animals should be set free and live as they should live in nature.
not being used by anyone
Is this seat free?
The hall was full of people and no seat was free.
not containing or having anything harmful or unpleasant
a life free from pain
We can start to grow new plants so that our environment looks fresh and enchanting and free from pesticides and sicknesses as well.
permission to make your own decisions about how you want to do something
The students were given a free hand as far as designing their product was concerned.
But unlike my parents, I wouldn't give my children a free hand in solving their problems.
without cost or payment
Children under five travel free.
He offered to do it for free.
I get tickets for free.
in a way that is not tied, limited, or controlled
The horse broke free and ran away.
If animals were born free, why do they have to live in a prison?
to suddenly escape or become separate from something
The prisoner broke free while the guards weren't looking.
to escape from someone or something that is controlling you
She tried to break free from the social conditioning of her upbringing.
I would like to revisit there one day as it's firmly connected to my adolescence, when I struggled to break free from my peers, and tried to establish my own identity.
to allow someone to leave a prison or place where they have been kept
After a ten-hour siege the gunman agreed to free the hostages.
We were taken hostage by a bank robber but the police came and freed us.
the condition or right of being able or allowed to do, say, think, etc. whatever you want to, without being controlled or limited
Children are allowed much more freedom these days.
I felt such a sense of freedom, up in the hills alone.
At university, you have the freedom to do what you want.
Everyone should be allowed freedom of choice.
The car gives some freedom of choice: I can move quickly from one place to another, I don't waste time on public transport and in winter it protects me from the cold and rain.
a situation in which you are not suffering because of something unpleasant or harmful
freedom from fear/poverty
Despite our modern medicine and the progress it has made within the last century, there is no guarantee of freedom from disease or freedom from illness.
without being controlled or limited
For the first time in months she could move freely.
Exotic foods are freely available in supermarkets.
She freely admits that she was partly to blame.
We encourage the victims to talk freely about their experiences.
We have always been able to speak freely with each other and this letter is no exception.
If something freezes or is frozen, it becomes hard and solid because it is very cold.
Water freezes at a temperature of 0°C.
The ground had frozen hard/solid.
When the lake freezes (over), we can go skating on it.
Sometimes the roads are frozen and the cars cannot pass.
to make food last a long time by making it very cold and hard
I'll freeze any food that's left over.
Most soups freeze well.
to feel very cold
Without a sleeping bag, you would freeze to death out there on the mountainside.
The weather is warm in the summer but when the winter comes... get ready to freeze!
to suddenly stop moving, especially because you are frightened
She saw someone outside the window and froze.
I froze with terror.
a large container operated by electricity in which food can be frozen and stored
There's some ice cream in the freezer.
It is about that beautiful vase you had on the freezer in the kitchen.
extremely cold
It's absolutely freezing in here - can I close the window?
They survived for four hours in the freezing water.
After walking through the snow, my feet were freezing.
At the moment, I am here in England and it is absolutely freezing.
when you are so excited, nervous, or anxious that you cannot control what you are doing
She hit him in a frenzy of rage.
For the next thirty-two hours, a frenzy took hold of the house.
happening often
a frequent visitor to the US
The most frequent cause of death is heart attack.
I am a frequent visitor to your cinema and I really like the films you show.
often
frequently asked questions
I see him quite frequently.
The buses run less/more frequently at certain times.
I met a beautiful girl and now we are seeing each other frequently, about twice a week.
Fresh food has been produced or collected recently and has not been frozen, dried, etc.
fresh fruit/vegetables/fish/bread
Sometimes they go to the sea to get really fresh fish.
new or different from what was there before
We're looking for fresh ideas.
We need to take a fresh look at the problem.
They decided to move abroad and make a fresh start.
In fact, it was the chance of a new life, the opportunity to make a fresh start.
smelling clean or feeling pleasantly cool
a fresh smell/breeze
The water was wonderfully fresh.
air outside buildings or away from the city that is clean and cool
Let's go outside and get some fresh air.
I think it would be better to go to the south east to the countryside and have a nice relaxing time with lots of fresh air.
recently made, done, arrived, etc., and especially not yet changed by time
There was a fresh fall of snow during the night.
Some people like the smell of fresh paint, but I don't.
The events of last year are still fresh in people's minds.
I don't know if it is the most embarrassing moment of my life, but it is still fresh in my memory and I get embarrassed every time I think of it.
having a lot of energy and not feeling tired
We got up the next day feeling fresh and relaxed.
Before the test, you should have your breakfast with a cup of coffee to make yourself feel fresh.
Fresh skin looks healthy.
a fresh complexion
Her eyes were blue and she had a beautiful fresh complexion.
water from lakes, rivers, etc. that has no salt in it
These fish live in fresh water.
You find stunning white beaches, clear, fresh water lakes, isolated tropic islands, reef, rainforests, buzzing cities, challenging mountain range, bush, outback - and the desert.
someone or something that is new, different, and exciting
Having Eve around has been a breath of fresh air.
The final suggestion is focused on building a leisure centre. Should this be everything the Town Council has promised, it will bring a breath of fresh air.
disagreement or dislike caused by people having different opinions
There’s less friction in relationships when you use teamwork.
Money spent on shopping can also be the cause of friction or arguments between husbands and wives.
the day of the week after Thursday and before Saturday
Do you want to go to the theatre on Friday?
I love Fridays because I leave work early.
The class is on Friday, from 2 to 4 p.m.
a large container that uses electricity to keep food cold
Don't forget to put the milk back in the fridge.
I think they are in the kitchen, near the fridge.
cooked in hot oil or fat
a fried egg
My favourite food is fried pork.
someone who you know well and like
She's my best/closest friend - we've known each other since we were five.
He's a family friend/friend of the family.
This restaurant was recommended to me by a friend of mine.
Bob is an old friend of mine.
At the weekend she is free so she goes out with friends.
a person you write to on an Internet site
I've just added Adam as a friend on Facebook.
to know and like someone
I've been friends with Jo for years.
He was really happy too, so we began to be friends.
to begin to know and like someone
He finds it difficult to make friends.
He's made friends with a boy in his class called Alex.
Although I didn't know anyone in this club, I immediately made friends with Maria and Rosaria.
the quality of being friendly
It was the friendliness of the people that struck me.
Your description of the people, their everyday life, their characters and their friendliness reflects that you really had an excellent time here.
behaving in a pleasant, kind way towards someone
a friendly face/smile
Our neighbours have always been very friendly to/towards us.
I think I'd prefer a pen-friend from America, because they are very friendly, aren't they?
to know and like someone
Her brother is quite friendly with my brother.
The teacher is friendly with the students, but a bit strict at the same time.
when two people are friends
a close friendship
I value her friendship above anything else.
I hope our friendship will become stronger and maybe he should become my boyfriend!
a sudden feeling of shock and fear
That dog gave me a terrible fright.
She screamed in fright when she saw him.
She suddenly realised she was being followed, so, speechless with fright, began to stride along back to her car.
to make someone feel fear
He frightens me when he drives so fast.
The noise frightened me to death.
I have no interest in lizards. Whatever their characters are, their appearance always frightens me.
feeling fear or worry
Are you frightened of spiders?
I was frightened (that) you would fall.
She gets frightened when he shouts at her.
The policewoman found a frightened child in the hut.
We were both frightened and didn't know what to do.
making you feel fear
a frightening thought
a frightening film
I like frightening films, so I'm going to buy it.
hair that is cut short and straight at the top of someone's face
Her fringe was nearly in her eyes.
She had a long fringe over her forehead that almost covered her pale blue eyes.
the outside edge of an area, group, or subject and not the main part
the southern fringe of the city
the radical fringe of the party
He is on the fringe of society.
not belonging to the main part of a group, activity, or subject
fringe politics/theatre
Unfortunately it seems to have won "new" currency in view of the latest events directed against foreigners, minorities and fringe groups.
a small, green animal with long back legs for jumping that lives in or near water
The frogs down at the lake were making a lot of noise.
That was my favourite place, because there were ducks, some frogs, and many butterflies as well as birds.
used to show the place where someone or something starts
What time does the flight from Amsterdam arrive?
The wind is coming from the north.
She sent me a postcard from Majorca.
She took her hairbrush from her handbag and began to brush her hair.
So did you really walk all the way from Bond Street?
My favourite one is the present from Lily.
used to show the origin of someone or something
"Where are you from?" "I'm from Italy."
I come from Spain.
I wonder who this card is from.
She comes from Poland.
used to show the time when something starts or the time when it was made or first existed
Drinks will be served from seven o'clock.
The price of petrol will rise by 5p a gallon from tomorrow.
Most of the paintings in this room date from the seventeenth century.
The museum is open from 9.30 to 6.00 Tuesday to Sunday.
It's from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
used to show the distance between two places
It's about two kilometres from the airport to your hotel.
We're about a mile from home.
It's about 3 kilometres from the city centre.
used to show the material of which something is made
juice made from oranges and mangoes
The present I loved the most was a cute little cat that is made from glass.
used when you are saying how similar or different two things, people or places are
University is very different from school.
His opinion could hardly be more different from mine.
The two sisters are so similar that it's almost impossible to tell one from the other.
His clothes are very different from everyone else's.
used to show the cause of something or the reason why something happens
He was rushed to hospital but died from his injuries.
You could tell she wasn't lying from the fear in her voice.
Many people have died from car accidents.
used to show a change in the state of someone or something
Things went from bad to worse.
She has been promoted from manager to director.
On the other hand the number of animals living in freedom, for example the number of tigers, elephants and lions in Africa or Asia, is decreasing more and more, because their living conditions have gone from bad to worse.
used to show the position of something in comparison with other things, or the point of view of someone when considering a matter or problem
From the restaurant there is a beautiful view of Siena.
She was talking from her own experience of the problem.
From our point of view, we do not see how these changes will benefit the company.
The job was hard, but from my point of view, it was worth it.
used to show what someone is not allowed to do or know, or what has been stopped happening
He's been banned from driving for six months.
For many years, the truth was kept from the public.
Wouldn't it be better if cars were banned from the Central Business District in order to avoid traffic jams and stress?
If something moves from side to side, it moves from left to right and back again repeatedly.
swinging from side to side
I began to understand it when I went to Kenya in 1986, because I had the wonderful chance to look at the animals in their natural surroundings, without being in a cage, walking nervously from side to side.
sometimes but not often
From time to time I still think of her.
I wash the dishes from time to time (I sometimes try to avoid this unpleasant duty) and clean our house.
a week/six months/ten years, etc. after the time when you are speaking
Who knows what we'll all be doing five years from now?
Have you ever thought about what clothes will look like in 100 years from now?
starting then, that day, etc. and continuing into the future
From then on, he began to keep all her letters and cards.
They were good friends from that day on.
It happened like a miracle, suddenly I could speak quite well and I had lots of friends and from then on, I had a very nice time and I lived the best experience I've ever lived in my short life.
from the beginning of something to its end
I enjoyed the film from start to finish.
I found out that the service itself should last at least one and half hours from start to finish.
If you do something from scratch, you do it from the beginning.
We didn't have any furniture of our own so we had to start from scratch.
That means you don't have to start from scratch with your teacher.
completely
I've searched the house from top to bottom and still can't find it.
Very often we can see someone in black, from top to bottom, or in white.
the side of something that is most important or most often seen because it faces forward
The front of the museum is very impressive.
You need to write the address clearly on the front of the envelope.
There was coffee on the front of his shirt.
If you want to come with me, call me or come to the front of the Rialto at 8:45 am - I will be there.
the part of something that is furthest forward
He was standing right at the front.
Do you want to sit in the front, next to me?
Thomas plays in the front. He makes nearly all the goals for our team.
close to the front part of something, or where someone can see or hear you
There's parking space in front of the hotel.
Please don't use bad language in front of the children.
There are four villas in front of our building.
further forward than someone or something else
The car in front suddenly stopped and I went into the back of it.
She started talking to the man in front of her.
As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name. I believed it was my imagination or perhaps a dream because I couldn't see anyone in front, behind or opposite me.
with the back part of something where the front should be
You've got your trousers on back to front.
Therefore, the government needs to cut expenditure and as a result of this, health facilities will only be accessible for rich people. Then we are back to front.
in or at the front of something
the front door/garden
the front page of the newspaper
One of his front teeth is missing.
I'd like two seats in the front row.
So let's meet at the front gate, at 9:15 pm.
a line or border between two countries
They placed guards on the frontier.
He took it and escaped towards the German frontier.
the limits of what is known or what has been done before in an area of knowledge or activity
the frontiers of science and technology
Introduction: throughout history, scientists, artists and other people tried hard to push back the frontiers of knowledge, in order to succeed in making or creating something that all humankind will benefit from somehow.
a thin, white layer of ice that forms on surfaces at night when it is very cold, or a time when the temperature is very cold and water freezes
When I woke up this morning the ground was covered with frost.
There was a frost last night.
There were a lot of hard frosts that winter.
Thirdly, you do not have to worry about rain, wind, frost or other bad weather conditions.
to make your face show that you are annoyed or worried by moving your eyebrows
She frowned when I mentioned his name.
She looked at him and frowned, strange, but he smiled back.
the expression on your face when you frown
He looked at me with a puzzled frown.
If you are truly devoted to your health, logic thus dictates that you will be sitting at the dinner table with an empty plate - and certainly a frown on your face.
Frozen food has been made so that it will last a long time by freezing.
We don't have any fresh vegetables, only frozen peas.
Nowadays, we do not need anymore to spend hours cooking, we just put some frozen food in the microwave, and in a few minutes our meal is ready.
turned into ice
They skated over the frozen lake.
If a person, or a part of their body is frozen, they are very cold.
Is there any heating in here? I'm frozen!
After walking through the snow, my feet were frozen stiff.
I was frozen, but after a second I had a big silly smile on my face.
something such as an apple or orange that grows on a tree or a bush, contains seeds, and can be eaten as food
fresh fruit
dried fruit
fruit juice
I eat three or four pieces of fruit a day.
I like exotic fruit, like mangoes and papayas.
He runs a fruit and vegetable stall in the market.
After those, maybe some fresh fruit salad with fruit juice.
If something that someone does bears fruit, it produces successful results.
Our decision is just beginning to bear fruit.
Although a new hotel and conference centre would greatly improve the image of our town, I consider it a costly investment that might not bear fruit.
the good result of someone's work or actions
This book is the fruit of 15 years' research.
People work very hard to obtain their salaries or wages, so after earning their salaries they need to enjoy the fruits of their hard labour and shopping is one way of doing that.
producing good or useful results
We had a very fruitful discussion.
We had a fruitful talk about his previous achievements in his first job, after which he found out how creative he was.
annoyed because things are not happening in the way that you want, or in the way that they should
I'm very frustrated at/with my lack of progress.
Fans are frustrated by their lack of success this season.
What, however, made us very frustrated was that there was no opportunity for us to take an exam at the end of this month.
making you feel frustrated
a frustrating situation
It's frustrating to see money going to waste like that.
When you are working and you are in a hurry to get to your work place on time, waiting for the bus becomes quite annoying and frustrating.
the feeling of being annoyed because things are not happening in the way that you want, or in the way that they should
I could sense his frustration at not being able to help.
So we had to leave hungry and with a certain feeling of frustration and disappointment.
to cook food in hot oil or fat, or to be cooked in hot oil or fat
Fry the mushrooms in a little butter.
I was frying some chicken as my wife was trying to listen to the radio news.
a flat, metal pan with a long handle that is used for frying food
Chop the mushrooms and put them in the frying pan.
a substance that is burned to provide heat or power
Wood, coal, oil, petrol and gas are all different kinds of fuel.
unleaded fuel
And third, if a rising number of people use a bike instead of their car, traffic density will decrease which is, again, good for the environment because there will be fewer traffic jams and therefore less fuel consumption and less pollution.
to do something that you have promised to do or that you are expected to do
He has failed to fulfil his duties as a father.
Therefore, she fulfils her duties carefully and precisely.
to do something that you really wanted to do
She has finally fulfilled her childhood ambition to swim with dolphins.
For numerous football fans who seek to fulfil their ambitions in the computer world I would recommend The Cup of Life.
to do something that is necessary or useful
You seem to fulfil a very useful role in the organization.
The reason is obviously not a lack of intelligence but mainly duties with educating children, housework and fulfilling the conservative role of women.
to have all the qualities that are wanted or needed for something
You have to fulfil certain requirements to qualify for the competition.
It fulfils all the criteria expressed above, and has a swimming pool too.
If something is fulfilling, it satisfies you and makes you happy.
a fulfilling job
But the choice of a fulfilling job is an important factor because most people spend 8 or 9 hours working every day and doing something that you don't like for long can be a problem.
a feeling of pleasure because you are receiving or achieving what you want
I hope that you'll find happiness and fulfilment in your life together.
Personally, I firmly believe that a certain degree of compromise should be reached, and that work should combine both economical and emotional stability, and only in that way will we find true fulfilment through work.
when someone does something necessary or something that they have wanted or promised to do
Being here is the fulfilment of a lifelong ambition.
Today's humans travel the earth for holidays, going from exotic to esoteric vacation spots to soothe body and mind, or in fulfilment of a business need.
If a container or a space is full, it contains as many things or people as possible, or as much of something as possible.
We couldn't get in - the cinema was full.
The shelves were full of books.
The theatre was only half full.
Be careful, that's a full cup of coffee I've given you.
I'm selling it, because I haven't enough free time to ride it and my garage is full!
complete and including every part
Please give your full name and address.
Today's my last full day in Paris.
I have Diwali holiday which means I will have a full day free.
containing a lot of things or people or a lot of something
This sweater is full of holes.
His essay was full of spelling errors.
You're always so full of energy.
You could go to Venice because it is a special place full of art.
the greatest possible
James is very bright, but he doesn't make full use of his abilities.
Nobody got full marks in the spelling test.
We were driving at full speed all the way.
It was like paradise on earth, until an old man, armed with a shotgun, told us to leave! So we left at full speed!!!
completely and with nothing missing
The bill must be paid in full by the end of the month.
Unfortunately, I wasn't able to read the e-mail in full, but as I understood, he wanted to apologise for what had happened between us many years ago.
having eaten enough food
No more cake for me, thanks, I'm full.
After having a big lunch, he was full up.
to think that you are very important or clever
She's been very full of herself since she won that prize.
There is a thing which I consider very important for the upbringing of my own children - to "teach" them to be coherent and to think of the "others" because if you are full of yourself, you are blind and you can't see what is happening around you.
to be very busy
Shelley has her hands full with three kids under 5.
This very fact made my father work as a slave, as he was the only breadwinner at home, my mother having her hands full with us four.
a mark (.) that is put at the end of a sentence, or at the end of a word that has been shortened
The full stop at the end of this sentence is a dot.
happening or working for the whole of the working week and not only part of it
a full-time job
Most children in the UK remain in full-time education until they are at least 16 years old.
She went back to work full time when her youngest child went to school.
So I decided to take a full-time course.
completely
The restaurant was fully booked.
Have you fully recovered from your illness?
a fully qualified teacher
strong, unpleasant, and often dangerous gas or smoke
car exhaust fumes
Cars emit fumes that are very dangerous.
enjoyment or pleasure, or something that gives you enjoyment or pleasure
She's great fun to be with.
Have fun!
They're having lots of fun in the pool.
I really enjoyed your party - it was such good fun.
It's no fun/not much fun having to work at the weekends.
I hope we have a great meal and a lot of fun.
for pleasure and not for any other reason.
I ran but just for fun.
Fortunately I discovered that the email wasn't for me. I didn't appreciate that there were people that were sending things like that just for fun.
to make a joke about someone or something in an unkind way
The other children at school used to make fun of his hair.
I didn't want to tell other people because I didn't want them to make fun of me.
enjoyable or entertaining
There are lots of fun things to do here.
I can remember my birthday party and all the fun things we did.
the purpose of something or the particular responsibility of someone
Each button has a different function.
I'm not quite sure what my function is within the company.
Apart from that, zoos have got an educational function.
a large, formal party or ceremony
a charity function
Almost 600 people gathered at my main wedding function.
designed to be practical and useful
functional clothing
Like many other people, I used to see my camera as a very functional object without being really fond of it.
an amount of money collected, saved, or provided for a purpose
a pension fund
A fund in her name has been made for handicapped children and the amount in this fund is growing fast.
money needed or available to spend on something
The charity closed down due to lack of funds.
Due to the limited funds available to the committee responsible for the festivities, the location was not in accordance with the expectations.
to provide the money to pay for an event, activity or organization
The company has agreed to fund my trip to Australia.
The new college is being privately funded.
We'd like to suggest, as an alternative, that by opening the Centre to the public when the Centre is less crowded, you'll be able to fund the changes.
relating to the most important or main part of something
a fundamental change/difference
Training is fundamental to success.
However I liked it a lot because music is fundamental to me.
in a basic and important way
Nothing has fundamentally changed.
I still believe that people are fundamentally good.
Japanese gardens are fundamentally different from those designed in Europe.
money given by a government or organization for an event or activity
The company received state funding for the project.
I must admit that this is an important community project that has long been neglected due to lack of Council funding.
a ceremony for burying or burning the body of a dead person
The funeral will be held next Friday.
Over 300 people attended the funeral.
She was crying at his funeral.
making you smile or laugh
Do you know any funny stories/jokes?
I've never found Charlie Chaplin very funny.
It's a really funny film.
It's not funny - don't laugh!
No matter how serious the situation there always seems to be a funny side to it.
We danced, drank coca-cola, and watched a very funny film.
strange, surprising, unexpected or difficult to explain or understand
He's got some funny ideas about how to bring up children.
That's funny - I'm sure I left my keys here.
A funny thing happened to me on the way here.
Do you think this jacket looks a bit funny with these trousers?
We often see people talking about fitness and health, but the funny thing for me is that everybody really looks worried about it although they don't do anything to make it better.
the thick hair that covers the bodies of some animals, like cats or rabbits
She stroked the rabbit's soft fur.
I find the killing of animals for fur an awful, disgusting thing.
extremely angry
I was late and he was furious with me.
He's furious about/at the way he's been treated.
He was absolutely furious, having learned about our engagement.
in a very angry way
"Get out of here!" she shouted furiously.
"Put that light out", I shouted furiously after those sleepless nights.
If a room or building is furnished, there is furniture in it.
He's renting a fully furnished apartment by the river.
The so called Student Study Centre was quite noisy and poorly furnished.
objects such as chairs, tables, and beds that you put into a room or building
They have a lot of antique furniture.
The only piece/item of furniture he has in his bedroom is a bed.
I hurt myself one week ago so I can't help you but pupils can install chairs and the other furniture.
more or extra
For further details of the offer, call this number.
Further information can be found on our website.
We'll let you know if there's any further news about the competition.
For further information, contact Joey Hung.
additional
A further 20 stores will be opening in Europe next year.
As a matter of fact, only 5% of the total income was taken to pay for administration costs, and a further 10% to pay for the cost of entertainment.
(comparative of far) at or to a place or time that is a longer distance away
Let's walk a bit further down the road.
When we left your place we drove on the motorway to Trier and further on to Luxembourg.
more
He refused to discuss the matter further.
Did you get any further with your research?
I demand a full refund or I will be forced to take this matter further.
to make something develop or become more successful
He'll do anything to further his career.
This could be because some of the Education graduates were already in the education field and pursuing a graduate course was a means of furthering their career or knowledge.
in addition to what has just been said
Furthermore, we have a duty to defend our country.
Furthermore, we found that the results varied according to what time of day the sample was taken.
I am 22 years of age and I have a degree in tourism. Furthermore, I have a working knowledge of English, Spanish, Catalan and Italian.
most distant
That's the furthest I can see without glasses.
extreme anger
He could hardly control his fury.
Never had John felt such fury and hate before.
when people become excited, annoyed, or anxious about something, especially something unimportant
What's all the fuss about?
She made such a fuss when Richard spilt a drop of coffee on her blouse!
It's all a fuss about nothing.
We tried to arrange a ceremony with as little fuss as possible.
The internet contains more information than any library, more easily accessible and without the fuss of library cards or the risk of losing books.
only liking particular things and very difficult to please
She's a very fussy eater.
When visiting a foreign country it may be difficult not to be fussy about food as well, and again, that is because of habits.
too careful about unimportant details
He's very fussy about keeping his car clean.
And this importance of presentation and almost fussy preciseness are reflected in our tradition.
in grammar, the form of the verb used when talking about something that will happen or exist
In the sentence 'Who will look after the dog?' the verb phrase 'will look' is in the future.
the time that is to come
Do you worry about the future?
We need to plan for the future.
I wonder what the future holds for you and me.
I'm sure at some point in the future I'll want to change jobs.
We talked about old times and about the future.
beginning from now
Could you be more careful in future?
In future, I'm going to check every single piece of work that you do!
I hope it'll help me to understand many foreign people not only in my job, but everywhere I go in future.
the chance of continuing to exist or succeed
There's no future in this line of work.
After his father's death, he didn't want to study, so he left university, losing a good future.
at a time that is not far away
Space travel may become very common in the near future.
I look forward to receiving your reply in the near future.
what will happen to someone or something in the time that is to come
We need to discuss the future of the company.
Torn apart by war, this country now faces a very uncertain future.
If there weren't any charity workers, a lot of disabled and poor people would face a very uncertain future.
as far in the future as you can imagine
Prices will remain high for the foreseeable future.
But in my view these same jobs will find themselves subjected to the same pressures and thus will have the same destiny in the foreseeable future.
happening or existing in the time which is to come
future plans
in future years
What will we leave for future generations?
I think that it will be very important for my future career.
a small piece of equipment that does a particular job, especially a new type
a kitchen gadget
I believe that robots and hi-tech gadgets will definitely invade our private and professional life.
to get something useful or positive, especially over a period of time
After you've gained some experience teaching abroad you can come home and get a job.
What do you hope to gain from the course?
So who will gain from the venture?
You must explain to them that you need to gain some experience.
to increase in something such as size, weight, or amount
He's gained a lot of weight in the last few months.
The car gained speed going down the hill.
I'm sure it is one of the best ways not to gain weight.
used to say that it is worth trying something, even if you may not succeed
It will be quite expensive ... still, nothing ventured nothing gained!
It was a demanding task to prepare it but nothing ventured nothing gained.
an increase in something such as size, weight, or amount
Side effects of the drugs may include tiredness, headaches or weight gain.
Consumption of pre-cooked meals, fast food, and canned food not only results in weight gain but also causes health problems.
when you get something useful or positive
financial/personal gain
There are huge gains in terms of the number of lives saved.
Maybe changing the attitudes of the younger generation as to the true aim of education could help in the future, teaching them that education is desirable to broaden the mind, to make us better people, not simply a means of financial gain, and of acquiring status in society by means of a socially acceptable job.
a room or building which is used for showing works of art
the National Portrait Gallery
You should go to the national gallery too.
to risk money on the result of a game, race, or competition
He gambled away all of her savings.
In fact on the first night they almost gambled it all away, but John got lucky at the last minute and won 25 thousand dollars.
a risk that you take that something will succeed
Buying this place was a big gamble, but it seems to have paid off.
Racing along the corridor I took a gamble and rushed for the lord's office, where the documents were likely to be.
the activity of betting money, for example in a game or on a horse race
Gambling can be addictive.
One night we went gambling in the hotel casino.
an entertaining activity or sport that people play
computer games
Do you want to play a different game?
Martin likes to play games on his Xbox every day.
a particular competition, match or occasion when people play a game
We had a game of volleyball.
Who won yesterday's game?
I also saw a basketball game between the Rockets and the Knicks.
to not deal with a situation seriously or honestly
Someone's life is in danger here - we're not playing games.
I couldn't possibly get all that money together, and the kidnappers were not playing games.
a group of young people who spend time together, usually fighting with other groups and behaving badly
a gang member
He didn't want to join their gang.
It was two days ago. I wanted to join Joe's gang, but first I had to prove my courage.
a group of criminals who work together
a gang of armed robbers
The infamous gang had robbed twelve families of all their belongings.
a group of young friends
I'm going camping with Holly and the rest of the gang.
A whole gang of us decided to go on an excursion, as we did once a month.
an empty space, hole or opening
She has a small gap between her front teeth.
The sun was shining through a gap in the curtains.
I had to deliver the test without filling the answers in the gaps.
a difference between two things
an age gap
The gap between rich and poor is still increasing.
It is a general rule that there is a great gap between generations which leads to different ideas and mentalities between children and parents.
something that is absent and stops something from being complete
There are still huge gaps in my knowledge.
Another huge gap in our town is the absence of a swimming pool.
a period of time spent doing something different
After a gap of five years, Jennifer decided to go back to work full-time.
Finally, on the last day, I suggest you could go to the market in town during the 3-hour gap.
an opportunity for a product or service that does not already exist
There's a gap in the market for a good fish shop.
I had nearly finished my study and had an idea to start a small software company, filling a gap in the market that was overlooked by the larger I.T. companies.
a small building, often next to a house, that you can put a car in
Did you put the car in the garage?
My house has got a garden but it hasn't got a garage.
a business that repairs or sells cars, and sometimes also sells fuel
The car's still at the garage getting fixed.
I took it to the garage and they are fixing it now but it will take time to repair it.
a piece of land belonging to a house, where flowers and other plants are grown
garden furniture
The house has a large back garden, and a small front garden.
I dropped it when we were playing with your dog in the garden.
a park or large public area where plants and flowers are grown
We visited the botanic gardens.
After that we are going to see the "Mary's gardens", where the photo session is going to take place, and at 13.00 we will have lunch at the main restaurant.
someone who works in a garden, growing plants and making it look attractive
They employ two gardeners.
You can become a very good gardener and walk very long distances.
the job or activity of growing a garden and keeping it attractive
She enjoys gardening.
After four years of studying and doing the A level exam, I still don't have any qualification in gardening, but I really like flowers and plants.
a vegetable like a small onion with a very strong taste and smell
a clove of garlic
For this recipe you need four cloves of garlic, crushed.
a piece of clothing
They were luxurious garments, made of silk and velvet.
Their garments consisted of four layers of robes.
a substance in a form like air that is used as a fuel for heating and cooking
a gas cooker
Do you prefer cooking with electricity or gas?
You can also see how life is in our African villages, where there is no electricity or gas and where water comes only from the river.
a substance in a form like air that is neither solid nor liquid
Oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen are all gases.
All people know that CO2 is a very dangerous gas for all kinds of animals.
to make a noise by suddenly breathing in because you are shocked or surprised
She gasped in horror as the car spun out of control.
I gasped with astonishment at the juggler's dexterity.
to breathe loudly and with difficulty trying to get more air
He clutched his heart, gasping for breath.
They danced until they were so tired that they fell to the ground, still laughing and gasping for air.
the noise that someone makes when they gasp
a gasp of surprise
His gasp startled the other sleeping tourists & they all crawled and stumbled onto their feet.
the part of a fence or outside wall that opens and closes like a door
Please shut the gate.
Let's meet at the school gate.
a part of an airport where passengers get on or off an aircraft
The flight to Dublin is now boarding at gate 8.
I got to the airport and started looking for gate 23 and there he was, my friend that had come back from London with a surprise for me.
to join other people somewhere to make a group, or to bring people together into a group
A crowd had gathered to hear her speak.
Crowds of fans gathered at the stadium for the big match.
She gathered the children together and began to tell them a story.
People had gathered in front of a particular painting.
to collect several things, often from different places or people
We gathered our things together and left quickly.
I have gathered over three hundred species: flowers, roots, leaves and other things.
to think something is true because you have heard or seen information about it
From what I can gather, they haven't sold their house yet.
As far as I can gather, there will only be light refreshments available.
From a modest survey I have made among citizens of different age groups and occupations, I can gather that both proposals have advantages and disadvantages.
to increase in speed/strength/support, etc.
Finally, the train began to gather speed, and we were on our way.
The use of railways was a bit fluctuating until around 1995, but gathered momentum after that.
a party or a meeting when many people get together as a group
a family gathering
Parks, for example, can't be used for a barbeque or family gathering in the winter time.
homosexual
gay rights
Have you told your parents you're gay yet?
If you are not a religious person, if you have got divorced and you want to get married again, or if you are gay, you must get married in a civil ceremony.
to look for a long time at something or someone or in a particular direction
He was gazing out of the window.
They gazed into each other's eyes.
He gazed at her and took her hand.
a long look at someone or something
a steady/watchful gaze
For a moment, he had this empty gaze of someone who is in trouble and who has to find a solution.
a set of parts in a motor vehicle or bicycle that control how fast the wheels turn
a mountain bike with 21 gears
It has 24 active gears and multilink kevlor brakes.
a particular position of the gears in a motor vehicle or bicycle that controls how fast the wheels turn
The lights turned green, but I couldn't get into first gear.
I wrenched the car into first gear and stormed off to the office.
the clothes and equipment used for a particular purpose
fishing/camping gear
I'll see you in a week and don't forget your cycling gear.
the state of being male or female
Does this test show the gender of the baby?
There were many speakers who talked about all sorts of subjects such as politics, religion, gender identity, and art.
the division of nouns, pronouns and adjectives into masculine, feminine and neuter types
In English, nouns don't have gender, but in French and Spanish, they do.
a part of a cell that is passed on from a parent to a child and that controls particular characteristics
Scientists have discovered the gene responsible for causing this disease.
I think it would be reasonable to include capsules with human genes and the genetic material of endangered species.
not detailed, but including the most basic or necessary information
These leaflets contain some general information about the school.
It's a very general description.
I've got a general idea of how it works.
By seeing the film, we are able to understand the general idea of the story.
usually, or in most situations
In general, men are taller than women.
In general, the weather here stays sunny.
In general, when anybody in my country has a wedding, the families invite all friends and neighbours to the wedding.
involving or relating to most or all people, things or places
There is general concern about rising crime rates.
There seems to be general agreement on this matter.
The decision has already been made by general agreement.
including a lot of things or subjects and not limited to only one or a few
general knowledge
To improve the general knowledge of the students, it might be a good idea to offer more newspapers than magazines.
considering the whole of someone or something, and not just a particular part of them
So, apart from the bad ankle, how are you in general?
I think that I, as well as people in general, would have been more depressed if we didn't have light.
when someone says something very basic that is often true but not always true
It's a sweeping generalization to say that girls read more than boys.
As the organizer of the International Student's Sports Club, I feel inclined to report from my own experience that such a generalisation is not appropriate.
to say something very basic that is often true but not always true
You can't generalize about a continent as varied as Europe.
Anyway, even though it's hard to generalise, it seems clear that people don't want to work, and want to enjoy themselves without working.
usually, or in most situations
I generally wake up early.
I generally prefer reading newspapers, but I don't dislike books.
considering the whole of someone or something, and not just a particular part of them
My health is generally very good.
Generally, Athens has a lot of things to do.
by most people, or to most people
He is generally believed to be their best player.
It is generally acknowledged that it depends on the zoo because sometimes the animals are loved and sometimes hated.
to cause something to exist
The new development will generate 1500 new jobs.
This film has generated a lot of interest.
Football generates every kind of emotion: happiness, sadness, and above all passion.
to produce energy
The wind farm may be able to generate enough electricity for 2000 homes.
In France, for instance, more than three-quarters of all electricity is generated from nuclear power.
all the people in a society or family who are approximately the same age
the older/younger generation
This is the story of three generations of women.
Some people say that cell phones are a bad influence on the younger generation.
a period of about 25 to 30 years, the time it takes for children to become adults and take the place of their parents in society
Our family has lived in this village for generations.
A generation ago, home computers were almost unknown.
Salzburg is a beautiful medieval town - it has got a wonderful cathedral, which was built by entire generations of Italian artisans.
a product when it is at a particular stage of development
a new generation of computers
I can sum up the most important things that changed my life are the telephone, the computer, the portable phone and of course the new generation of television.
the production of energy in a particular form
electricity generation from wind and wave power
The energy generation crisis Brazil is having to deal with is well known.
the quality of being generous
Her friends take advantage of her generosity.
Anna, thank you again for your generosity.
willing to give other people money, help, kindness, etc.
She's been very generous with her time.
I like her because she is a generous, kindly, interesting person.
larger than usual or than expected
a generous discount for students
a generous portion
To sum up, I must correct the conclusion in your article, as the event did come up to the organisers' expectations, raising a generous amount of money to donate to the hospital.
in a generous way
Please give generously to Children in Need.
I can't think of any other person who opens her house so generously as you do!
relating to genes
a rare genetic disorder
genetic research
Mendel thought that basically it is the genetic material which is responsible for the future development of a child.
having had some of the genes changed by a scientific process
They are opposed to genetically modified food.
Despite the fact that the European Union prohibited genetically modified products in its countries, we are still using pesticides, causing pollution and food poisoning.
the scientific study of the parts of cells which control particular characteristics (genes)
Next year, I'll be studying genetics.
We use technology in order to save human lives and to explore strange new worlds, such as genetics.
someone who is extremely intelligent or extremely good at doing something
Einstein was a genius.
And what about Mozart - poor little genius!
the quality of being extremely intelligent or extremely good at doing something
Einstein's genius
Nothing is more common than unrewarded genius and misused talents.
kind, calm and careful not to upset or hurt anyone
My mother was such a gentle, loving person.
Mani is very kind and gentle.
not violent, severe or strong
gentle exercise
a gentle breeze
The weather is sunny, the gentle breeze is pure and fresh.
A gentle slope or climb is not steep.
It was a fairly gentle climb to the summit.
THE TOUR Trained guides lead people across gentle slopes towards thick woods displaying a wide variety of birds and animal life.
a polite word for 'man'
Ladies and gentlemen, the show is about to begin.
So she walked up on the stage and started speaking steadily into the microphone: "Ladies and gentlemen...." This is how the story ended.
calmly, kindly or softly
He held the baby gently in his arms.
Now I am older and I speak to my mother very gently.
If something is genuine, it is really what it seems to be.
genuine leather
The bicycle is a genuine Shimano bicycle.
If a person or their feelings are genuine, they are sincere and honest.
They showed genuine sympathy for our situation.
On the other hand, it is well known in environmental management that strategies that work via the people's purse are often the only way to motivate people who have little genuine interest in environmental problems (or just too many other concerns).
in a genuine or sincere way
I'm genuinely sorry for the extra work this has caused.
We are all genuinely interested in English literature.
the study of the physical surface of the Earth and all regions of the world
a degree in geography and economics
I left my geography book at your house yesterday.
the study of rocks and soil and the physical structure of the Earth
a book about geology
I have graduated from school and I am now studying geology at the University of Greece.
a very small living thing that causes disease
Wash your hands before cooking so that you don't spread germs.
I am more careful with cleaning up and taking care of my baby. It was amazing the way they spoke about germs and dust.
the beginning of something
the germ of a brilliant idea
Going back to the scene at More's home, we now understand why this is the germ of the subsequent development of the play.
A gerund is a noun made from the form of a verb that ends with -ing, for example 'fishing' in 'John loves fishing.'
We learned about gerunds today.
a movement you make with your hand, arm, or head to express what you are thinking or feeling
He made a rude gesture at the crowd.
Review - The Body Speaks ... In the second part, you are taught how to read the gestures, voice, and hesitations, and analyse them.
something you do to show people how you feel about a person or situation
It would be a nice gesture to invite her to dinner.
Dear Sir, I am the secretary of the Student Committee in Bringtown College and I am writing to thank you for your kind gesture in inviting me to the opening of the new Arts Centre.
to point at something or express something using your hand, arm, or head
He gestured towards the window.
She gestured to the hall's expensive Persian carpets and the extensive collection of French Impressionists hanging on the walls.
to obtain or buy something
I'll get some bread on the way home.
Did you get the tickets for the concert?
We could get the afternoon ticket.
to receive or be given something
I got some lovely presents on my birthday.
I got a letter from Stefano.
Did you get my email?
I got your note.
to reach or arrive at a particular place
We got home later than usual.
I didn't get to work till nine o'clock.
I had a good time at your house last night but when I got home I realized I had forgotten my bag!
to travel somewhere in a bus, train, taxi or other vehicle
Shall we get a taxi to the station?
You can get the train.
to go somewhere and bring back someone or something
Wait here while I get the car.
I'll go and get Sophie from the station.
Could you get me my keys from upstairs?
I decided to go on with my plan and get my father's car.
to begin a legal relationship with someone as their husband or wife
They got married in April.
She was going to get married, and I was invited to the wedding.
to become ill or develop an illness
I'm getting another cold.
I was angry, and I got a cold!
to start to be cold/ill/late, etc.
Your coffee's getting cold.
It's getting late.
It's getting late so I should finish now.
to become more ill, unpleasant, difficult, severe, etc. than before
My cold seems to be getting worse.
If the rain gets any worse, we'll have to stop walking.
I thought, it couldn't get worse.
to have something done to you. This is sometimes used instead of the usual passive structure.
He got killed in the war.
She got told off in class for not paying attention.
I got bitten during the walk.
Two weeks ago many people at school got injured because of an explosion, so a TV company came to film what the school is like now ...
to produce an answer or result that is not correct, or to say or write something that is not correct
I got most of the answers wrong.
The newspapers got the story completely wrong.
to do a task, or to arrange for someone to do a task for you
Could you get the kids dressed?
I need to get my hair cut.
You must get that form sent off.
First I have to go to the doctor and then I have to get my teeth checked by the dentist.
to contact someone
Please get in touch if you ever come back to Madrid.
Get in touch soon.
to move to a different place or into a different position
I saw her getting into his car.
They said that I got into a car by myself (they thought that I had believed the story).
to deal with or answer a ringing telephone, a knock on the door, etc.
Could you get the phone, Al?
Someone's at the door - could you get it?
to spend time with someone or something so that you gradually learn more about them
The first couple of meetings are for the doctor and patient to get to know each other.
I'll need a few weeks to get to know the system.
I hope you can come here and get to know him.
to throw something away or give something to someone because you no longer want it
We must get rid of some of those old books.
Do you think I'd better get rid of the sofa and place the bookshelf there?
to end something unpleasant
I can't seem to get rid of this headache.
The first step is to get rid of smoking.
to make something happen, or make someone or something do something
I can't get my computer to work!
I'll get Ben to fix your bike.
We must get the councillors to change their minds.
to develop an opinion about a situation because of something that you notice
I got the feeling that she was quite angry about the situation.
I disagree with some points you mentioned and would like to share the impression I got from that popular holiday report during my two-week trip.
to annoy someone, especially by doing something again and again
If we spend too much time together, we end up getting on each other's nerves.
Sometimes, receiving a phone call can disturb very important events in a person's life, but it also gets on people's nerves when you use it in a public place like a train...
to have the chance to do something
I never got to meet her.
I did get to meet a musician, a singer named Anouk.
to understand or hear something
That joke that he told - did you get it?
to make an effort to control your emotions and behave more calmly
Stop panicking and get a grip on yourself!
The best thing to do was to talk to people who were not doing the test rather than building up my anxiety. However, I did not do this and it almost resulted in a disaster, but I got a grip on myself and just barely passed.
to annoy someone, especially by doing something again and again
Please stop making that noise! It really gets on my nerves.
My neighbour is always quarrelling with his wife. It's getting on my nerves!
to make someone leave
She was useless at her job so we had to get rid of her.
Improving your English on your own (or a self-guide on how to get rid of your English teacher!)
to make sure that you completely understand a situation
Let me get this straight - am I paying for this?
Next time you should try to get your facts straight.
to organize your activities so that you can make progress
She's so disorganized - I wish she'd get her act together.
He was determined to get his act together and try to find a solution to his problem.
to tell someone about something that you have been worried or angry about for a long time
Tell me what's wrong - you'll feel better if you get it off your chest.
Chris is always caring and lends you his ear if there's something you need to get off your chest.
If something gets you nowhere, it does not help you to succeed.
Bad manners will get you nowhere.
As this is a loophole in the law system, it's creating a conflict between house-owners and squatters and getting them nowhere.
to do something difficult or unpleasant as soon as you can so that you do not have to worry about it any more
I got all my apologies over and done with at the beginning of the meeting.
Not to mention that he knew that he had to get his degree over and done with before he started making serious decisions.
to do something unpleasant to someone because they have done something unpleasant to you
I got my own back by putting a frog in her bed.
There, Kingshaw has the opportunity to get his own back by pushing Hooper down the wall, but he doesn't dare because he is not as cruel as Hooper.
used when you do not want someone to think that you do not like someone or something
Don't get me wrong, I like her, but she can be very annoying.
Don't get me wrong, I love my aunts, I really do, but not as houseguests.
to hurry
We're leaving in five minutes, so get moving!
"Oh, look at the time, we must get moving!"
to hurry
Come on, get a move on!
'All the lights will be switched off in 28 minutes, so I have to get a move on' I said to myself, as I started to write on a new piece of paper.
to become difficult to control
It was the end of term and the children were getting a little out of hand.
A few solutions can prevent this problem from getting out of hand.
to learn how to do something, especially if it is not obvious or simple
I've never used one of these before. - Don't worry, you'll soon get the hang of it.
It was quite hard to get the hang of it, as I didn't have any knowledge of English.
to begin
The film festival gets underway on 11th July.
used to say that someone understands a situation
Oh right, I get the picture.
If you use a photograph though, you can be sure that everyone will get the picture (pun intended) and probably remember the person you're talking about next time they see him.
the spirit of a dead person
Do you believe in ghosts?
We saw a horror film. It was about ghosts and vampires!
extremely large
a giant spider
Harry Potter fought with the giant snake and he won.
an imaginary man who is much bigger and stronger than ordinary men
The story is about a friendly giant.
People have always seen him as a "big friendly giant", always ready to help those who are in need.
a very large and important company or organization
a media/software giant
In less than 15 years Bill Gates has built up his own company from scratch and turned it into a computer giant.
a present or something which is given
a wedding gift
The guitar was my father's gift. It is the best gift I've ever received.
a natural ability or skill
She has a gift for design.
He understands the thought processes of children quite well, and has a gift for making difficult concepts understandable to youngsters, which obviously means he would be a very good supervisor.
A gifted person has a natural ability or is extremely intelligent.
a gifted athlete
a school for gifted children
Roger Federer is a young and extremely gifted tennis player.
to laugh in a nervous or silly way
She started giggling and couldn't stop.
Clara, a thin woman in her late fifties, giggled and her usually so flabby lips trembled as she did so.
a large African animal with a very long neck and long legs
Giraffes are the tallest land animals.
Animals like elephants, giraffes and exotic birds must be free. How would you feel living inside a cage?
a female child or young woman
Two girls showed us round the classrooms.
We have three children - a boy and two girls.
She has one girl.
a group of female friends
I'm going out with the girls tonight.
We were dancing all night at the club and I really enjoyed my time with the girls.
a woman or girl who someone is having a romantic relationship with
I've never met his girlfriend.
I danced with my mother and my girlfriend Maria.
a female friend of a girl or woman
She's going out with her girlfriends tonight.
I buy clothes once a month, and I usually go shopping with my mother or my girlfriends.
to provide someone with something
Her parents gave her a car for her birthday.
Can you give me a date for another appointment?
Can you give this book to Andrea?
Yesterday was my birthday and my mother gave me a small dictionary.
to put something near someone or in their hand so that they can use it or look at it
Can you give me that pen?
He poured a cup of coffee and gave it to Isabel.
We gave the monkeys some bananas to eat and played with them.
to telephone someone
Why don't you just give him a call?
If you have other questions, you can give me a call.
to tell someone something
Can you give Jo a message?
The woman refused to give her name.
She gave me some really useful advice.
I really hope you can give me some advice.
to have a party
They're always giving parties.
He's a very nice guy, and I would like to give him a surprise party.
to allow someone to have a right or an opportunity
We didn't really give him a chance to explain.
I'll see you at seven o'clock to give you the chance to explain.
to produce or cause something
What you said has given me an idea.
The sudden noise gave me quite a shock.
This announcement will give hope to millions of sufferers.
I hope this will give you an idea of what I like.
to allow someone or something a particular amount of time
I'm nearly ready - just give me a few minutes.
Do you think you would be able to give me 2 hours more on Friday?
to pay someone a particular amount of money for something
I gave him £20 for his old camera.
to perform an action
She gave a cry.
He gave her a kiss on the cheek.
She gave me a big hug.
When he saw me, he gave me a big, warm hug and a sweet kiss.
to perform or speak in public
Tony gave a great speech to open the conference.
We would be very happy if you could come to our school and give a speech.
When a woman or an animal gives birth, she produces a baby from her body.
She gave birth to twins.
The most important person in my life is the person who gave birth to me, my mother.
to not do an activity
I think I'll give aerobics a miss this evening.
For this reason, I don't encourage you to buy the Spanish version of these CDs. I think you should give it a miss. Kind regards give way
to stop in order to allow other vehicles to go past before you drive onto a bigger road
You must give way at this junction.
Of course, you have to remember to give way to the pedestrians, to respect the signs and to push on the brake when you see a red light.
to promise someone something
Paolo gave me his word that he wouldn't tell anyone.
I give you my word that it will never happen again.
to cause something
The bacteria live in the human body but do not give rise to any symptoms.
That visit gave rise to a fruitful discussion in which various opinions were voiced and here are some comments on them.
to express strong anger or another strong feeling
He gave vent to the frustration that had been building up inside him.
It's a great fallacy that giving vent to our emotion will be a solution to the problem itself and will lead to anything at all.
to change into something else
Her excitement quickly gave way to horror.
This friendship gave way to love, but it was a really difficult situation, after all she was the Managing Director's daughter.
If something gives way, it falls because it is not strong enough to support the weight on top of it.
Suddenly the ground gave way under me.
Fred's voice trailed off as he felt his legs give way beneath him.
to criticize someone and make them feel guilty about something they have done
Ever since I missed the goal, the other players have been giving me a hard time.
I'm not saying that I wasn't normal or anything, I just gave my family a hard time sometimes.
pleased and happy
I'm glad that you came.
I'm so glad to see you.
I'm very glad to hear that.
very willing to do something
She's always glad to help.
I know him personally and I'm sure he'll be very glad to help you.
to be grateful for something
I was glad of a few days off before going back to work.
We are glad of the changes at the Sports Centre even if the changes do not solve all the problems.
the quality of being attractive, exciting and special
the glamour of Hollywood
The red carpet, the glamour, the glitter, the fame are things we all dream about at one point or another in our lives.
to look somewhere for a short time
He glanced at his watch.
From my seat at the café table I was glancing at this man when suddenly two men in black jackets, and wearing sunglasses ran and tackled the stranger, knocking him out.
to read something quickly
She glanced through the newspaper.
As you know, I always like glancing at some international newspapers.
a quick look
She had a quick glance around the restaurant but couldn't see him.
Just have a glance at the enclosed menu.
If you see something at a glance, you see it very quickly or immediately.
He could tell at a glance that something was wrong.
You could tell at a glance that Peter was a loner.
strong, bright light that hurts your eyes
I get a lot of glare from my computer screen.
As often as not, pressing the switch gave no result or yielded the glare of a naked bulb.
a long, angry look
She gave me an angry glare.
His glare said everything; she was the worst thing that had ever happened to the school.
to look at someone in an angry way
She glared at him and stormed out of the room.
You open the door and "Surprise!!": it's your mother and father, who have just arrived from the country to spend the weekend with you. You glare at your mother, imagining that.
a hard transparent substance that objects such as windows and bottles are made of
broken glass
a glass jar/vase
The present I loved the most was a cute little cat made from glass.
a container made of glass that is used for drinking
Would you like a glass of water?
After the film we can visit a restaurant for a glass of wine.
a piece of equipment with two transparent parts that you wear in front of your eyes to help you see better
a pair of glasses
She was wearing glasses.
Roger, I think I have left my glasses in the kitchen.
when you see something or someone for a very short time
He caught/got a glimpse of her as she got into the car.
If you go to Canada, like I did, you will enjoy great camping in the Rockies and might even catch a glimpse of the famous bears.
relating to the whole world
a global disaster
the global problem of nuclear waste
the global economy
The improvement of electronics and global communications has made it possible to keep in close contact with friends all over the world.
the process by which businesses operate in many different countries and the culture of different countries becomes more similar
the globalization of big brands
the globalization of fashion
Thanks to globalization, fast food has arrived in Argentina, as almost everywhere in the world.
in a way that relates to the whole world
The company has to be able to compete globally.
Since I went to Canada, I realized we should think about environmental pollution globally.
a gradual increase in world temperatures caused by polluting gases
Very few people now deny that global warming is caused by humankind.
Also, due to global warming, sea levels might rise and the risk of flooding will also rise.
the world
This event is being watched by 200 million people around the globe.
He has given numerous speeches around the globe, in which he always captivated the audience.
when people praise and respect you for achieving something important
It was my idea, but she got all the glory.
This point of view states that it is more fulfilling for a single person to achieve a goal on their own, without having to share the glory with other people and that by doing it alone, one really feels that one has achieved something.
the quality of being very impressive or beautiful
The castle has been restored to its former glory.
Two years ago, the state, helped by the community of the island, gave birth to an ambitious plan to restore this beach to its former glory.
a piece of clothing which covers your fingers and hand
a pair of gloves
Remember to bring gloves as well.
a soft, warm light
the warm glow of the moon
The sun was setting, leaving a pink glow on everything it touched and the air smelled like fresh-cut grass.
when your face feels or appears warm and healthy
Sam's face had lost its rosy glow.
After about three weeks of using this product by Morway Company, you will notice that your face looks softer and has a natural healthy glow.
to produce a soft, warm light
toys which glow in the dark
You can safely invest in juggling equipment that glows in the dark, has flashing lights - or even that is set afire before starting to juggle with it.
to have a warm and healthy appearance
Her eyes were bright and her cheeks were glowing.
While the tourists were getting dressed, Ingrid, a tall middle-aged woman, checked the humidity of her armpits and that reminded her of the sentence: "Horses sweat, men perspire, women glow."
to feel very happy, proud, etc.
Glowing with pride, she showed me her painting.
I never use it, of course, but just knowing I possess it makes me glow with happiness.
a substance used to stick things together
Put a bit of glue on both edges and hold them together.
On the contrary, sometimes, with the help of our teachers, we had to fix them using "emergency" solutions and materials, such as sellotape and glue.
to stick something to something else with glue
Do you think you can glue this vase back together?
That is why my father glued and nailed the back of it so nobody could ever open the frame.
to move or travel somewhere
I'd like to go to Japan.
He went into the house.
Are you going by train?
Does this train go to Newcastle?
Where did Helena go?
I'd like to go to Hawaii.
to move or travel somewhere in order to do something
Let's go for a walk.
I have to go and pick the kids up now.
I also have a dog and I like to go for a walk with him.
to visit shops in order to buy things
We went shopping in town last Saturday.
We often go shopping.
to go somewhere to do a particular activity
We went skating yesterday.
We're going camping on Friday.
I'd like to go swimming.
to intend to do or be something
I'm going to call her tonight.
I'm going to be a dancer when I grow up.
I'm going to paint my bedroom yellow.
used to say that something is expected to happen in the future
It's going to snow tonight.
They're going to have their first baby in June.
I think it's going to rain tomorrow.
to empty the body of urine or solid waste, usually using a toilet to do so
It's going to be a long journey, kids, so if you want to go to the toilet do so now.
I left my watch at your house last night. ... I went to the toilet and put it on the basin.
to develop in a particular way
My exams went really well.
"How did your interview go?" - "Rather badly!"
Something's gone wrong with my computer.
I hope everything is going well.
to develop problems
Something's gone wrong with my computer.
Despite all that went wrong, there was something I really enjoyed. It was visiting the Diamond Cave.
to disappear or no longer exist
The food had gone by the time we got to the party.
When I turned round, the man had gone.
When I came to take my suitcase, it had gone!
If two things go, they match each other.
That top doesn't go with these trousers.
This jacket and skirt don't go together do they?
to become bald/blind/grey, etc.
He went bald in his twenties.
If a road, path, etc. goes in a particular direction, it leads there.
This road goes to Birmingham.
to have a particular tune or words
I can't remember how his latest song goes.
If time goes, it passes.
The day went very quickly.
But the time went so quickly and now I am in my early sixties with a lot of spare time.
to tell or include all the facts about something
I won't go into detail over the phone, but I've been having a few health problems recently.
In one of his books he really goes into detail about how children treat other children who have difficulties with their "new" language.
If someone goes red, their face becomes red because they are embarrassed or angry.
He kissed her on the cheek and she went bright red.
When Paul saw the girl who had got blond hair and bluish eyes, his face suddenly went red.
If something goes without saying, it is obvious or generally accepted.
It goes without saying that smoking is harmful to your health.
It goes without saying that I will participate!
If two things go hand in hand, they exist together and are connected with each other.
Prosperity goes hand in hand with investment.
Traffic and pollution go hand in hand.
to provide what someone needs for a short period of time
Dinner is at eight, but I had an apple to keep me going.
Because of health concerns, advertisements lately show the people in Holland how important it is to have a good breakfast and that it will keep you going the whole day.
to continue to become more successful
The business is going from strength to strength.
To sum up, I believe that if the suggestions outlined above are put into action our magazine will go from strength to strength.
to make a particular sound or movement
A cat goes 'Miaow'.
"Your dog's behaving oddly!" - "He goes like that when he wants some food."
to work in the right way
Did you get the car going?
If there is a particular amount of time to go, that time remains.
There are only two weeks of term to go.
Right now this example is very realistic, and as I have just been told there is only 15 min to go, my stress level, I have to admit, is too high.
to gradually become worse
After his wife died, his health started to go downhill.
He had been going downhill in the last few days and so his death came as no surprise.
to do something too much, or to be too excited about something
I think people go overboard with presents at Christmas.
While no one should restrict their eating habits to the point eating is no longer a pleasure, but rather a chore, it is important not to go overboard, completely disregarding the advice of nutrition experts.
to try very hard to do something pleasant for someone
He went out of his way to make us feel welcome.
to do something because you are expected to do it and not because you want to
These days when we go out, I feel as though he's just going through the motions.
She went through the motions of every-day-life without enthusiasm.
to take the extreme action of doing something
He even went so far as to stop her using the telephone.
Our present course of action may go so far as to cause irreversible damage not only to our planet but also to the people living upon it.
to behave in a way that upsets or annoys other people
He's said some stupid things in the past, but this time he's gone too far.
Lucia let her speak and calmly said: "You really have gone too far this time."
to do or accept what other people are doing because it is the easiest thing to do
Just relax and go with the flow!
At this stage of her progress towards knowing herself better she has accepted that life is a muddle and that to a certain extent one has to go with the flow.
If something goes against the grain, you would not normally do it because it would be unusual or morally wrong.
It goes against the grain to throw all this food away.
She tries to dodge George because she is afraid of admitting the fact that she loves him. It simply goes against the grain.
If the level of something, especially a price, goes through the roof, it increases very quickly.
The price of corn has gone through the roof recently.
Try extreme sports and feel your adrenaline levels going through the roof!
continuing to be successful or healthy after a long time
The club was set up in 1987, and it's still going strong.
He's 93 and still going strong!
I am proud of him and happy that he is still going strong.
an opportunity to play in a game, or to do or use something
It's your go, Michael.
Please can I have a go on your bike?
But if you are ready to get wild with your friends, I think you should have a go.
an attempt to do something
"This jar is impossible to open." "Here, let me have a go."
to try to make something succeed, usually by working hard
They're determined to make a go of their business.
used to describe a situation that is uncertain
The doctor says it is touch and go whether Mary will recover.
The idea of earning a lot certainly appeals to me but it's touch and go whether the job may bring a lot of money right from the start.
a point scored in sports such as soccer, when a player sends a ball or other object into a particular area, such as between two posts
He scored two goals in the second half.
We won by three goals to one.
Brinkworth scored the winning goal.
I scored ten goals.
in some sports, the area between two posts, where players try to send the ball
Terry headed the ball towards the goal.
I usually play in goal, but sometimes I play in attack too.
an aim or purpose
Do you think I'll be able to achieve my goal of losing 5 kilos?
Andy's goal is to run in the New York Marathon.
Always set yourself realistic goals.
My goal for the future is to be a sail boat captain and this trip would be a good opportunity to practise my skills.
the player who stands in the team's goal to try to stop the other team from scoring
Their goalkeeper was sent off in the 80th minute.
He is a very good goalkeeper.
an animal with horns which is kept to provide milk, meat, etc.
goat's milk/cheese
You can enjoy watching camels and goats passing once in the morning and again in the evening.
in Jewish, Christian, or Muslim belief, the spirit who created the universe and everything in it
Do you believe in God?
The book talks about God's love.
used to emphasize how surprised, angry, shocked, etc. you are
Oh my God! The car's been stolen.
Oh my god, your sister is getting married!
something you say when you are happy because something bad did not happen
Thank God nobody was hurt in the accident.
"Thank God my car is OK", he said.
a spirit, especially a male one, that people pray to and who has control over parts of the world or nature
the ancient Greek gods and goddesses
It was circled by a halo of light as if some gods had blessed it.
a valuable, shiny, yellow metal used to make coins, jewellery, etc.
The bracelet was made of solid gold.
It's made of gold and very expensive.
made of gold
gold jewellery
Sammy gave me a gold ring.
being the bright yellow colour of gold
gold paint
I need a gold colour to paint the bedroom.
made of gold
a golden ring
Marinella, I have left my golden ring at your house.
being the bright yellow colour of gold
her golden hair
It is a mermaid Barbie with long golden hair.
special, successful, or giving someone an advantage
He's got a place at university which gives him a golden opportunity to do research.
As you know, my uncle has some friends in the music world and it was a golden opportunity when he asked me to help at the Tina Turner concert!
a game on grass where players try to hit a small ball into a series of holes, using a long, thin stick
Do you play golf?
We often have a round of golf at the weekend.
a golf course
We could go to a golf course and play golf.
enjoyable, pleasant or interesting
a good book/film
Did you have a good time at the party?
I think we will have a good time.
of a high quality or level
She speaks good French.
The food at this restaurant is very good.
She likes eating good food from Argentina, for example barbecued meat and salad.
something you say when you are pleased about what someone has said
"I'm coming on Saturday." "Oh, good!"
"She's really making progress." "Good!"
something that you say when a person asks how you are or how someone you know is
"How are you, Amelia?" "I'm good, thanks!"
"How's Joshua doing?" "He's good, thank you."
Hi, Jo Is your family good?
successful, or able to do something well
Kate's a good cook.
She's very good at geography.
He's very good with children.
He's a good football player.
kind or helpful
a good friend
He's very good to his mother.
He is a good friend.
making you healthy or happy
Swimming is really good for you.
It's good for you to eat plenty of vegetables.
I think playing basketball is good for you.
suitable or satisfactory
When would be a good time to phone?
Is this a good moment to talk?
How about Friday - is that good for you?
Saturday is good for me, I hope that it is good for you.
A good child or animal behaves well.
If you're a good boy at the doctor's I'll take you swimming afterwards.
I made a promise, I'll be the good child for two months, later I'll return to being the devil child you know!
morally right
He's a very good person.
Try to set a good example to the children.
Only in this way can we give a good example to the new generation.
If it's a good thing that something happened, it is lucky or fortunate that it happened.
It's a good thing (that) we booked our tickets early.
I think it's a good thing that your parents are going to come, because ... maybe it would make it easier for you to convince them to let you spend a week here during Xmas.
used to show approval for someone's success or good luck
You passed your exam - good for you!
That's great news! Good for you!
used to emphasize the number, amount, quality, etc. of something
There's a good chance he'll pass the exam.
Your children have a good chance of getting a better education.
to be a pleasant or interesting person to spend time with
Ann and Charles are always good company.
He is a bit narrow-minded and at first he'll drive you crazy, but once you get to know him he'll be good company.
an agreement, arrangement, or situation that benefits you
I think we got a really good deal on our new car.
The possibility of getting the needed staff from our own departments is absolutely a good deal for the company.
not less than 20 minutes/30 miles, etc. and probably a bit more
It's a good half an hour's walk to the station from here.
The Arts and Social science field also has a good 21% of graduates in further study.
If it is a good job that something happened, it is lucky that it happened.
It's a good job that Jo was there to help you.
It's a good job that I didn't cry.
used to say that something has gone well until now
It's the first time I've done any decorating, but so far so good.
So far so good, only no one told us they held this point of view before the actual christening took place.
to be acceptable in a way that will not upset or anger people
His speech was in good taste.
I therefore thought that it would be in good taste to write about two of them.
something that is an advantage or help to a person or situation
Even a small donation can do a lot of good.
It's hard work, but it's for your own good.
Please think about this, it is for your own good.
to not be useful, helpful or valuable
Shoes are no good if they let in water.
Food aid isn't much good until the fighting stops.
When it is raining, you get wet and that's no good to anyone.
to be useful or helpful to someone
A holiday in the sun will do you good.
I think that living and studying in another country will do you good.
forever
When he was 20, he left home for good.
He was renting this property previously, but he went back to Sri Lanka for good.
what people think is morally right
Children don't always understand the difference between good and bad.
From a symbolic point of view, the whole book features the conflict between good and evil, between reason and primary brutal passions such as savageness and lust for blood.
to make someone feel much happier or healthier
That swim has done me a world of good.
I feel a year abroad would do her a world of good in letting her care for children, learn to speak English properly, and see life from different aspects.
something you say to someone when you meet them in the afternoon
Good afternoon, Cara.
something you say when you leave someone or when they leave you
Goodbye Marcos! See you next week.
Goodbye for now.
something you say to greet someone in the evening
Good evening, and welcome to the channel 2 evening news.
Good evening, everyone.
If someone is good-looking, they have an attractive face.
He's very good-looking.
The teacher is a very young and good-looking woman.
something you say to greet someone when you meet them in the morning
Good morning, Joe - how are you today?
When you come in class he says hi good morning every body.
the quality of being good
She believes in the goodness of human nature.
Soon after their marriage, Kinga gained a reputation for being a saint, for her virginity, modesty and goodness.
something you say when you leave someone or they leave you in the evening, or when you are going to bed
Good night, everyone - I'm off to bed.
items which are made to be sold
There is a 25% discount on all electrical goods until the end of the week.
You can buy all goods there without tax.
to search for something on the Internet using the Google search engine
We Googled his name and found over 2000 sites.
very beautiful or pleasant
I met this gorgeous guy at Erik's party.
There's a gorgeous view from the top of the hill.
I met this gorgeous guy Neto, and we are dating.
conversation or reports about other people's private lives that might or might not be true
an interesting piece of gossip
Have you heard the latest gossip?
Among them are the increasingly popular reality shows and all the daily news about gossip and scandal.
to talk about other people's private lives
Stop gossiping and get on with some work!
People have started to gossip about us.
First of all, I think they should accept the fact that they are well-known and they should be observed all the time, as we are curious to know what they do and we love to gossip about others.
to control and direct the public business of a country, city, group of people, etc.
The country is now being governed by the Labour Party.
He governed this area in medieval times.
the group of people who officially control a country
The government has/have recently cut taxes.
senior government officials
It talked about the anti-violence programmes funded by the government.
the method or process of governing a country
a new style of government
The 1990s saw a shift to democratic government in Eastern Europe.
to take hold of something or someone suddenly
A mugger grabbed her handbag as she was walking across the park.
I quickly hung up and grabbed clothes and my cell phone.
to get something quickly
Can everyone grab a handout, please?
We grab a burger on our way to work and a milkshake on our way back home.
to take an opportunity quickly and with enthusiasm
I'd grab the opportunity to travel.
If you get the chance to meet her, you should grab it.
I do admit that I could be more sociable and could grab the opportunity and meet many of my neighbours.
to attract someone's attention
The advertisement is designed to grab people's attention.
We have to find the books that best grab the reader's attention.
the quality of moving in a smooth, relaxed, and attractive way
She moved with grace and elegance.
As with the sport I mentioned before, it also has the grace and elegance of a dancer and the technique, of course, of a skater.
the quality of being pleasantly polite
He had the grace to apologize for his mistake the next day.
When a person or object graces a place or thing, they make it more attractive.
Her face has graced the covers of magazines across the world.
The cover is graced with the flower after which it is named, an enormous, virgin white magnolia.
moving in a smooth, relaxed, and attractive way, or having a smooth, attractive shape
graceful movements
a graceful neck
One of the reasons for its popularity is that Hebe was a famous singer years ago, so her fans are the audience of her show. She is graceful, talented, impartial and spontaneous.
behaving in a polite and pleasant way
She accepted his criticism in a very graceful manner.
I believe that people who have civil and graceful manners and who refrain from being too assertive end up being more successful and powerful than those who try to exert authority at any given moment.
a number or letter that shows how good someone's work or performance is
Steve never studies, but he always gets good grades.
Carla got a grade A in German.
I was really surprised when I read this mail. I passed with very good grades.
to separate people or things into different levels of quality, size, importance, etc.
The fruit is washed and then graded by size.
Our members graded everything on a scale from 1 to 5, with 1 being very poor, and 5 being excellent.
happening slowly over a period of time
a gradual change/improvement
There was a gradual rise in 1992.
slowly over a period of time or a distance
Gradually, she realized that he wasn't telling her the truth.
Books will gradually disappear, and instead we will read all the things we want on our computer.
a person who has a first degree from a university or college
a science graduate
He is a graduate in Ancient History and he has done post-graduate studies in Archaeology.
to complete a first university degree successfully
Tom has just graduated with first-class honours in psychology.
He graduated from Oxford University last year.
I graduated from university last year, and I am studying English now.
a seed or seeds from types of grass which are eaten as food
grains of wheat/rice
One solution is to invent some kind of medicine, little pieces like a grain of rice, which feed a person, i.e. by just eating one piece, the person won't need to eat anything else for the rest of the day.
a very small piece of something
a grain of sand/sugar
She smiled again, absent-mindedly, and wiped away a grain of dust from the lid of the piano.
a very small amount of a quality
There isn't a grain of truth in her story.
In my humble opinion, both these views contain a grain of truth, and at the same time they are fundamentally wrong.
If something goes against the grain, you would not normally do it because it would be unusual or morally wrong.
It goes against the grain to throw all this food away.
She tries to dodge George because she is afraid of admitting the fact that she loves him. It simply goes against the grain.
a unit of mass equal to 0.001 kilograms
Measure out 200 grams of butter.
the way words combine and change their form and position in a sentence, or the rules or study of this
This course will cover basic English grammar.
You can learn grammar and vocabulary with this book.
relating to grammar, or obeying the rules of grammar
grammatical rules
a grammatical sentence
It was strange, because in the text there were some grammatical errors.
very large and special
a grand hotel
the Grand Canal
Do you want to live in a grand mansion, an expensive flat or even a castle?
the child of a person's son or daughter
They spend a lot of time with their grandchildren.
My grandchildren will wear a fish-like suit 100 years from now.
grandfather
Isn't that your granddad over there?
When I arrived, my granddad was waiting for me.
the daughter of a person's son or daughter
I will probably offer it to my daughter or my granddaughter later on!
the father of a person's mother or father
My grandfather died before I was born.
It is important because it was from my grandfather.
grandmother
My grandma is a very good cook.
On Sunday I have to go to my grandma's house.
the mother of a person's father or mother
My grandmother lives in Argentina.
My 4 brothers, dad, grandmother, sister and my friends were there.
grandfather
I usually see my grandpa twice a week.
It's very important to me because my favourite grandpa gave it to me.
the father or mother of a person's father or mother
We can learn a lot from our grandparents.
I invited my grandparents, friends, aunt and uncles.
the son of a person's son or daughter
Nicholas was her first grandson.
Francisco's sons and grandsons came to meet us at Havana Airport and then we had lunch together.
grandmother
Our granny used to tell us funny stories.
That watch was very important, because my granny gave it to me before she died.
an amount of money provided by a government or organization for a special purpose
a student/research grant
I'd like to know if I have to pay for my ticket (Valencia-Kent) or if there's some kind of grant that I could apply for.
to give or allow someone something, usually in an official way
He was granted asylum.
He came to the USA in 1990 and was granted a permanent resident status.
to not show that you are grateful for someone or something, and forget that you are lucky to have them
Most of us take our freedom for granted.
So don't take the telephone for granted, but keep in mind that our modern way of life is mainly due to its invention.
to believe that something is true without checking or thinking about it
I took it for granted that we'd be invited to the wedding.
I have taken it for granted that you will arrive for dinner.
a small round purple or pale green fruit that you can eat or make into wine
a bunch of grapes
In the countryside there many grapes and beautiful wineries, that is why my country has great wine.
a picture with measurements marked on it as lines or curves, used to compare different things or show the development of something
This graph shows how crime has varied in relationship to unemployment over the last 20 years.
The graph shows the amount of carbon dioxide produced from a range of sources in the UK from 1980 to 2000.
images shown on a computer screen
computer graphics
The film was full of special effects created with the help of computer graphics.
to take hold of something or someone firmly
He grasped my hand enthusiastically.
It would take my heart away to be able to grasp his wrinkled hand and give him a kiss on the cheek of his crimson face, as I would always do when visiting him.
to understand something
I find these mathematical problems difficult to grasp.
Children born into wealth cannot grasp the importance of money, and when they finally leave the shelter of their parents' home, they are completely unable to restrict their spending and save money.
to take action immediately in order to deal with an unpleasant situation
I've been putting off tackling the problem for too long and I think it's time to grasp the nettle.
Now we are going to grasp the nettle and we are not going to give up easily.
when you understand something
He has a good grasp of of English grammar.
Computers are an essential part of our modern lives and I am sure I would need to have a good grasp of the Microsoft tools to progress in my career.
when you hold onto someone or something
I tried to pull him out but he slipped from my grasp.
the ability to obtain or achieve something
Victory is within our grasp.
Although immortality is still beyond our grasp, prolonged life is a well-known fact.
a common plant with narrow green leaves that grows close to the ground
I've cut the grass.
We lay on the grass in the sunshine.
This house is bigger than the other one because it has a garden with grass and flowers.
feeling or showing thanks
I'm really grateful to you for all your help.
I would be most grateful if you would send me the book immediately.
My grandmum cooked dinner and we were very grateful for it.
a place in the ground where a dead person is buried
an unmarked grave
After a couple of hours they brought her from the hospital and the next day they buried her near her mother's grave.
very good
We had a great time at the party.
It was great fun.
I think it's a great idea.
I hope we have a great meal and a lot of fun.
large in amount, size or degree
A great crowd had gathered outside the President's palace.
A great noise came from outside the building.
It's a great pleasure to give you some advice.
extreme
He has great difficulty walking.
In my first lesson we talked together about our past experiences and our greatest difficulty in studying English and we learnt some phrasal verbs too (which we really hate)!
important or famous
This is one of Rembrandt's greatest paintings.
He's probably the greatest actor alive today.
Ginny was a keen collector of rare paintings by great artists.
very big/ long, etc.
I gave her a great big hug.
I will never forget when I was walking on the beach and all of a sudden this great big dog appears from nowhere running after me.
a lot
She spends a great deal of her time in Glasgow.
A great deal of effort has gone into making the software reliable.
They still need a great deal more money to finish the project.
There will be lots of events which you could see and take a great deal of pictures of.
very much
The higher profits were the result of greatly reduced costs.
The number of birds on the island has greatly increased in recent years.
Her piano playing has greatly improved/has improved greatly.
I recently went to the music festival and I greatly enjoyed it.
skill and importance
Her greatness as a writer is unquestioned.
So, getting to be rich and famous is more related to achieving greatness in your own field and not necessarily gaining money and becoming the richest person in the world.
when you want a lot more food, money, etc., than you need
We were shocked by their greed.
I hate to accept that greed and ambition are the trademarks of our society, but it seems clear to me now.
wanting a lot more food, money, etc. than you need
greedy, selfish people
He was a greedy and cruel man.
being the same colour as grass
green vegetables
The traffic lights turned green.
I'll use purple and green paint.
covered with grass or other plants
green spaces
If you wanted to do some outdoor activities, we could go fishing or even go walking through the green fields.
relating to nature and protecting the environment
green issues
the Green Party
There is the government party, "Green party", especially in Germany.
to wish very much that you had something that another person has
Sam's got a job in the south of France and we're all green with envy!
The more successful players' salary makes the others green with envy.
the colour of grass
dark/light green
I am going to use green for my bedroom.
to welcome someone
He greeted me at the door.
We sat down and the teacher arrived. She greeted us and she told us her name.
to react to something in a particular way
His story was greeted with shrieks of laughter.
The return of the musician, who was once famous in the world, was greeted with joy.
something friendly or polite that you say or do when you meet or welcome someone
They exchanged greetings before starting the session.
Lucy asked me to pass on greetings to you.
being a colour that is a mixture of black and white
grey clouds
I got a surprise present: a cat, that is grey and black.
cloudy and not bright
a cold, grey morning
Although we are in spring, yesterday was a grey day with clouds and rain.
not interesting or attractive
Life was grey and tedious.
If you join one of the Excel Academy language courses it will not be for the food- it was very grey and dull.
the colour that is a mixture of black and white
She was dressed in grey.
I'd like some trainers in the colours grey and blue, please.
great sadness, especially caused by someone's death
Newspapers should not intrude on people's private grief.
However, my grief was still fresh and raw then.
a piece of equipment which cooks food using direct heat
Put the sausages on/under the grill.
I recommend meat on the grill - it is delicious.
a flat, metal structure used to cook food over a fire
He placed a grill over the coals.
First you have to light the fire, then you have to put a grill above it and finally you put the meat on the grill, but it is not so easy as it looks, because you have to know when the meat is done and you have to choose the right meat.
to cook food using direct heat
Grill the fish for two to three minutes on each side.
We were in the garden and we grilled meat.
cooked on or under a grill
grilled steak/fish
The grilled fish was delicious and spicy.
worrying and bad
grim news
The future looks grim.
A person should realise that no matter how grim the future seems to be there is always light at the end of the tunnel.
sad and serious
a grim expression
They gaped at it with surprise, but slowly the grim faces were replaced with smiles and laughter.
A grim place is ugly and unpleasant.
grim industrial regions
This was a particularly gloomy and grim place.
to smile a big smile
He grinned at me from the doorway.
He stood up, approached me in his once corduroy trousers, grinned and poked his tongue out at me.
to accept an unpleasant or difficult situation because there is nothing you can do to improve it
I hate my job, but I'm just going to have to grin and bear it for a while.
As I couldn't simply get up and go away, I just had to grin and bear it for a little while longer.
a big smile
She had a big grin on her face.
No sooner had he entered the restaurant than he was greated with broad grins and friendly hugs.
to hold something very tightly
The baby gripped my finger with her tiny hand.
I gripped the steering wheel, fixed my eyes firmly on the road, and bravely drove up to Scotland.
When an emotion grips you, you feel it very strongly.
He was gripped by fear.
But when she found out, a cold feeling of shock gripped her.
to keep someone's attention completely
This trial has gripped the whole nation.
I was gazing at the stage and was completely gripped by the music.
when you hold something tightly
She tightened her grip on my arm.
Then suddenly I lost my grip on the papers and they all dropped to the floor and landed in a great heap.
to make an effort to control your emotions and behave more calmly
Stop panicking and get a grip on yourself!
The best thing to do was to talk to people who were not doing the test rather than building up my anxiety. However, I did not do this and it almost resulted in a disaster, but I got a grip on myself and just barely passed.
to understand and deal with a problem or situation
It's a difficult subject to get to grips with.
As a result, they are daily faced with tight schedules and they have to come to grips with the demanding work they have to prepare for school.
If something is gripping, it is so interesting that it holds your attention completely.
a gripping story
'I know why the caged bird sings' is the most gripping read I have ever read.
to make a long, low sound such as when expressing pain, unhappiness, etc.
He collapsed, groaning with pain.
He was breathing but he was unconscious; he moaned and groaned, but he did not have any obvious signs of injuries.
a long, low sound such as one expressing pain, unhappiness, etc.
I could hear his groans from behind the door.
Afterwards, with a wild groan, he dropped down to the ground.
a man who is getting married
The bride and groom were posing for pictures.
In my village, the bridge and the groom stay on their first night at the groom's parents' house.
A gross amount of money has not had taxes or other costs taken from it.
gross earnings/profit
Considering that our business is booming, we suggest investing a certain amount of money in the above-mentioned technical devices in order to achieve the financial target, which is to increase our gross profit by 10%.
very serious or unacceptable
gross misconduct
Secondly, in the second paragraph, two gross mistakes were made.
the surface of the Earth
I sat down on the ground.
The weather was really nice and the ground wasn't wet so we could run with no problem.
an area of land used for a particular purpose or activity
a football ground
Could we use the football ground?
the soil in an area
soft/stony ground
The ground was frozen hard and was impossible to dig.
Winds sweep the grey granite coast line letting survive a few rare species of plants which are adapted to the dry and salty ground.
to become more/less popular and accepted
The idea is gradually gaining ground.
Lately, Italian food is gaining ground in Slovenia.
to refuse to change your opinion or move your position despite attempts to make you
They tried to make me accept a lower wage, but I stood my ground.
She said she would stand her ground. In fact, she hoped that after the first flush of infatuation was over, Francis would come to long for his former love.
to do something that is different to anything that has been done before
Their research is really breaking new ground.
Paul decided to break new ground in music no matter how long it took.
to find shared beliefs, interests or ideas
It's difficult for me to find any common ground with my dad.
The bottom line is we have to find some common ground and some balance between development and nature...
because of a particular reason
You cannot discriminate on the grounds of religion.
I refused on the grounds that it was too risky.
I am convinced that it is better than Southside College on the grounds that a great mass of students are satisfied.
a reason, cause or argument
He resigned on medical grounds.
I would like to mention some of the events in the novel which prove Stevens's loyalty and at the same time make him seem irritating especially out of a modern point of view: the dismissal of the two Jewish maids on purely racial grounds.
the land around and belonging to a particular building or organization
We strolled around the hospital grounds.
The visitors feel molested, since they can either not visit the famous sights without being asked for money or they are even advised not to leave the hotel grounds in order not to be robbed.
a number of people or things that are together in one place or are connected
I'm meeting a group of friends for dinner tonight.
The group meet(s) every month.
The children are taught in different age groups.
All our group of friends were there.
a number of people who play music together, especially pop music
a pop/rock group
I like reggae and ska music music, especially NSK, a very good ska group.
to form a group or put people or things into a group or groups
The children are grouped according to their ability.
I would like to suggest that we should be grouped according to the level of our English proficiency on the first day of the semester.
to develop and become bigger or taller as time passes
Children grow so quickly.
I've grown and the dress is too tight for me.
If a plant grows, or you grow it, it develops from a seed to a full plant.
Tomatoes grow well in full sun.
The villagers grow coffee and maize to sell in the market.
I will grow many new trees.
to increase
The number of people living alone grows each year.
In Rio, violence is growing very fast, so if we're planning to spend the holiday in the city we'll have to take care.
If your hair or nails grow, or if you grow them, they get longer.
Are you growing a beard?
I've lost some weight and I've grown a beard.
to gradually become tired/old/calm, etc.
Our bodies change as we grow older.
The music was growing louder and louder.
They went to the field and, relaxing on the grass, spoke about their life without each other. Soft blue evening came and it was growing dark.
increasing in size or quantity
There is a growing awareness of the seriousness of this disease.
All my family, friends, and neighbours were first full of pride and expectations, then with slowly growing disbelief and disappointment.
an adult, used especially when talking to children
Ask a grown-up to cut the shape out for you.
If I were a grown-up I would like to have a big dog.
If you say that someone is grown-up, you mean that they are an adult or that they behave in a responsible way.
She has two grown-up children who work in the family business.
Now, as a grown-up person, I am trying to evaluate such an upbringing objectively.
when something grows, increases or develops
A balanced diet is essential for healthy growth.
population growth
The huge growth of technology has brought lots of good aspects to my life, like the facility to be informed about everything that is happening around the world.
easily annoyed and often complaining
a grumpy old man
Secondly, our coach driver was a grumpy, unpleasant man who was not even polite enough to answer our questions.
to promise or make sure that something is true or will happen
Every child is guaranteed a place at a local school.
They guarantee that it will arrive on time.
I can guarantee you won't be disappointed if you let me do the job.
a written promise made by a company to repair one of its products or give you a new one if it has a fault
a money-back guarantee
I'm afraid this camera is no longer under guarantee.
And you couldn't take it back because it is not under guarantee.
a promise that something will be done or will happen
There's no guarantee that it actually works.
They are the ones who are hit most by any economic deterioration or crisis, and there is no guarantee that they will not end up living in the streets.
someone whose job is to protect a person, place or thing from danger or attack, or to prevent a person such as a criminal from escaping
a security guard
prison guards
The frontier is patrolled by border guards.
I saw two security guards, who opened the door for me and welcomed me inside.
to surprise someone by doing something when they are not ready to deal with it
The journalist caught him off guard and he admitted to lying.
It caught me off guard. This grotesque image shattered the comfort of a languid Sunday afternoon and for a few seconds hurled me into a world of pain.
to be ready to deal with something difficult that might happen
Companies were warned to be on their guard for suspicious packages.
However, we should be on guard, so as not to let the things escape our control.
to relax when you should be careful or ready to deal with something
He's worried that if he lets his guard down that his staff will start to become lazy.
That of course will go against anything Stevens has ever done and he never lets his guard down.
to protect someone or something from being attacked or stolen
Soldiers guard the main doors of the embassy.
I guess it was that thrill that actually made me anxious to know what really was going on inside the dodgy-looking old house guarded by a man with an unfriendly hound.
to watch someone and make certain they do not escape from a place
Five prison officers guarded the prisoners.
No one was guarding him.
used before telling someone something interesting or surprising
Guess what? We won the match 4-0.
Guess what? Jessica gave me a teddy bear.
to give a answer or opinion about something without having all the facts
Guess how old he is.
You'll never guess who I saw in town.
"You've got a promotion!" "How did you guess?"
You will never guess who I ran into at the club.
used when you think something is probably true or likely
I've known her for about 12 years, I guess.
I guess that I love her although we do not know each other very well.
used when you agree/disagree but are not completely certain about something
"So they're still living in the same house?" "I guess so."
an attempt to give the right answer when you are not certain if you are correct
How old do you think John is? Go on, have a guess.
Both teams made some wild guesses, none of which were right.
I am sure you will know her from TV - now have a guess who she might be.
a guess that is probably correct because you have enough knowledge about something
I know you don't have the exact figures with you, but make an educated guess.
If we make an educated guess, we will probably suppose that this tendency will continue for the next few years and that there will be a time when we won't be able to do anything without medicines.
someone who comes to visit you in your home, at a party, etc.
We've got some guests coming this weekend.
There were 90 guests at their wedding.
There were fifty guests at my party.
a person who is staying in a hotel
We would like to remind all our guests to leave their keys at reception before they depart.
And if you are a guest of the hotel, they'll give you a beautiful flower.
a person, such as an entertainer, who has been invited to appear on a television or radio programme or in a performance
Our special guest on the programme tonight is Robert de Niro.
Of course a bear shouldn't be a guest on a TV show, it's not in his nature.
help or advice
careers guidance
I dream of being Lord Krishna's devotee but I need professional guidance.
someone whose job is to show interesting places to visitors, or to help people get somewhere
a tour guide
The guide at the museum gave us a very interesting talk.
Yesterday I visited the "White House" and the guide was very friendly.
a book that gives information about something or tells you how to do something
a hotel/restaurant guide
a user's guide
I found that some of the current information in the guide is a little bit old.
to help someone visit a place or go somewhere
Someone offered to guide us through the jungle.
He gently guided her back to her seat.
I had to look after the members of the public and I guided them to their seats.
a book that gives visitors information about a particular place
a guidebook to/about Venice
The rest of the holiday I'll dedicate to tourism with my guidebook, getting to know the best places on the island.
advice about how to do something
government guidelines
The EU has issued guidelines on appropriate levels of pay.
To avoid being injured, you must follow all the guidelines provided by your employer.
a feeling of shame or unhappiness when you have done something wrong
He suffered such feelings of guilt over leaving his children.
Her brother had hesitated before telling her the truth, but he proved that he really trusted his sister by confessing his guilt to her.
the fact of having committed a crime
Both suspects admitted their guilt to the police.
feeling guilt
She was so upset about what I'd said and I felt so guilty.
I felt guilty about leaving her there on her own.
I've got a guilty conscience.
I've got a guilty conscience because I forgot to say goodbye.
responsible for breaking a law
The jury found her guilty.
The jury has to decide whether a person is guilty or innocent of a crime.
After the trial, where the jury found him guilty, he was sent to prison for a long time.
a musical instrument with six strings and a long neck which is usually made of wood, and which is played by pulling or hitting the strings with the fingers
an acoustic/electric guitar
Do you play the guitar?
I can play the guitar quite well.
someone who plays the guitar, especially as their job
The lead guitarist in the band was excellent.
Not only did he want to be a doctor, but he was also a great guitarist.
an important difference between the opinions or situations of two groups of people
There is a growing gulf between the rich and the poor.
While Mrs Kingshaw simplifies and trivialises her son's fears, she increases the gulf between them.
the hard, pink part inside your mouth that your teeth grow out of
Protect your teeth and gums by visiting your dentist regularly.
a weapon that you fire bullets out of
You could hear the noise of guns firing in the distance.
He went downstairs and picked up his father's gun.
the bravery and determination that is needed to do something difficult or unpleasant
It took guts to stand up and tell the boss how she felt.
I didn't think he would have the guts to quite that awful job.
They did not expect that the people in this vicinity would actually have the guts to retaliate!
the organs inside a person's or animal's body
Its guts were spilled all over the road.
The walls were covered in blood and their guts were spilled all over the place.
a man
Do you mean the guy with the blonde hair and glasses?
Last night, I met a wonderful guy!
used when you are talking to or about two or more people
Come on, you guys, let's go home.
Hey guys! I'm just writing to thank you for the great times we had last weekend and to say you're awesome.
a building or room with equipment for doing exercises
Nick goes to the gym three times a week.
We went to a gym near my house.
exercises done inside, especially as a school subject
We have gym on Friday afternoons.
You can do gym, aqua, dance, boxing, squash, and tennis.
involving gymnastics
a gymnastic display
My friend likes to go swimming every morning. I prefer to do gymnastic exercises in a separate room every day.
a sport in which you do physical exercises on the floor and on different pieces of equipment, often in competitions
Let's watch the gymnastics on TV.
Every Tuesday and Thursday you can do sports like basketball, football or also gymnastics.
something that you do often and regularly, almost without knowing that you are doing it
healthy eating habits
I always buy the same toothpaste out of habit.
I'm trying not to get into the habit of having biscuits with my coffee.
He can't break the habit of switching on the TV when he comes home at night.
I'm not really in the habit of looking at other people's clothes, but even I noticed that awful yellow suit!
In your last letter you asked me about my shopping habits and my clothes.
something that you often do that is bad for you or is annoying
He has some really annoying/nasty habits.
I was taught to drive by my boyfriend and I'm afraid I've picked up some of his bad habits.
With more free time and more money to spend than ever, shopping is a great activity, but when this creates bad habits such as overspending, it could lead to serious problems.
the natural environment of an animal or plant
We want to see lions in their natural habitat.
These snakes and wild cats are able to live in the wild, as the forests in Denmark are like their natural habitat.
small hard balls of ice which fall from the sky like rain
Hail was drumming against the windows.
In the past, a very cold winter and hail would destroy the crops and kill hundreds of families; and, moreover, people had little protection against the attacks of wild animals.
to call or wave to someone to get their attention
She stepped into the road and hailed a taxi.
If you see a car or a bus or some other vehicle, just hail them and ask for help.
If it hails, small, hard pieces of frozen rain fall from the sky.
It hailed for a few minutes this morning.
It was hailing.
the thin, thread-like parts that grow on your head
curly/straight hair
blonde/dark/fair/grey/red hair
She's got long/short/shoulder-length brown hair.
I'm going to have/get my hair cut.
She has got long black hair.
one of the thin thread-like parts that grow on a person's or animal's skin
He's starting to get a few grey hairs now.
My black skirt was covered in cat hairs.
Then he appeared: a fat, middle-aged man with only a few hairs on his head.
to relax and enjoy yourself
I'd love to see Clare let her hair down for once.
Holidays indeed, represent the perfect and fundamental escapism from everyday life: we are free to let our hair down and savour the pure taste of idleness.
when someone cuts your hair, or the style in which it has been cut
to get/have a haircut
I really need a haircut.
He had a smart new haircut.
You two have the same haircut, the same complexion but not the same attitude, which is good.
a person who cuts people's hair and puts it into a style. The place where this is done is called a hairdresser's.
I'm going to change my hairdresser.
I've got a four o'clock appointment at the hairdresser's.
I decided to go to the hairdresser's to have my hair cut because the next day I had to go to the party.
a piece of electrical equipment for drying your hair with hot air
Did you pack a hairdryer?
We have microwaves that help us to prepare our meal quickly, we have hairdryers to dry our hair in 15 minutes, we have different things that have made our life easier.
30 minutes past one o'clock/two o'clock/three o'clock, etc.
We got back to our hotel at half past seven.
I start college at half past nine.
one of two equal parts of something
Rice is eaten by half of the world's population.
It'll take half an hour to get there.
Jenny lived in Beijing for a year and a half.
He cut up the apple and gave me half.
It takes an hour and a half.
to divide something into two equal parts
Divide the dough in half and roll it out into two circles.
Fold the piece of paper in half.
They were very surprised when they found out that the gold was cut in half.
a lot
She invited a lot of people to the party but half of them didn't turn up.
I don't even know where she is half (of) the time.
First of all, if the computer hadn't been invented, I wouldn't spend half of the day in front of it!
to be much less good/bad/exciting, etc. than something else
Her new book's not half as good as the last one.
Probably they wouldn't be half as famous as they are without press photographers, journalists, etc.
partly, but not completely
half empty/full
Sophia is half Greek and half Spanish.
After our kiss, my face was painted half white, half black as well.
costing half the usual price
I got some half-price pizzas at the supermarket.
The railcard allows students and young people to travel half-price on most trains.
It will cost £215, which is almost half-price.
a large room or building where meetings, concerts, etc. are held
the Royal Albert Hall
a concert hall
I'm playing in a concert at the village/church hall.
Dear Jo, You can find the information in the school hall.
a room or passage near the main door of a building, which leads to other rooms
I've left my bags in the hall.
I think I left it in the hall.
meat from a pig's back or upper leg
a ham sandwich
Every day for breakfast we have bread with ham.
a tool with a heavy, metal part at the top that you use to hit nails into something
You will need a hammer and some nails.
I had got a hammer to break the window.
the part of your body on the end of your arm that has fingers and a thumb
Take your hands out of your pockets!
You have to hold my hand when we cross the road.
They walked by, holding hands.
Hold your fork in your left hand and your knife in your right hand.
"Congratulations!" she said and shook my hand/shook hands with me.
Hi Sabrina The party was good. I forgot my phone in your house - I had it in my pocket, then it was in my hand and then I put it on a table in the kitchen.
some help, especially to do something practical
Could you give me a hand with these suitcases?
I think Matthew might need a hand with his homework.
I'll give you a hand to organize your holiday!
done or made by a person instead of a machine
This sweater has to be washed by hand.
I used to remember my mother washing our clothes by hand, but for me it is just a matter of throwing the clothes into the washing machine and pressing a few buttons.
used when you are comparing two different ideas or opinions
On the one hand, computer games develop many skills, but on the other, they mean kids don't get enough exercise.
On the one hand, I know from my experience that it's much easier in life if you know more about everything, but on the other hand, I'd say that if someone had given me a chance (when I was kid) to study what I enjoyed, probably I'd have more possibility to develop my skills.
holding each other's hand
The young couple walked hand in hand by the lake.
Hand in hand they got off the train and she felt that her decision to leave was the best decision she had ever made in her life.
If two things go hand in hand, they exist together and are connected with each other.
Prosperity goes hand in hand with investment.
Traffic and pollution go hand in hand.
near in time or space
Teachers are always close at hand to give help to any child who needs it.
I haven't had any lectures in English, but now and then there are lectures in English at the University so you need to understand the spoken language with no dictionary at hand.
to be in someone's control or care
The matter is now in the hands of my solicitor.
If we do not hear from you within 10 days we shall be obliged to put the matter in the hands of our solicitors which is not what we desire.
without using a weapon or tool
He strangled the dog with his bare hands.
I learned how to milk a cow, with my bare hands.
near to someone or something, and ready to help or be used when necessary
Extra supplies will be on hand, should they be needed.
From their point of view, they can always have you on hand whenever they need help, which is the most important part in their formative years.
If you suffer at the hands of someone, they hurt you or treat you badly.
She suffered terribly at the hands of her classmates.
She felt abandoned and the loss of Mark's friends at the hands of their old nemesis in the local election had left him with fewer activities for the municipality.
to find something
Do you know where I can lay my hands on a pair of scissors?
And as long as we remain unable to distinguish between needs and desires, amassing material possessions to gratify our fleeting caprices or alleviate our frustrations, we are bound to be trapped in the illusion that only by laying our hands on the desired goods can we obtain happiness and peace of mind.
being worked on or dealt with now
Despite the pressures we are determined to get on with the job in hand.
Miss Kenton keeps asking Stevens whether everything is in hand and whether her help is required.
to get into a stronger position than someone else so that you are controlling a situation
Government troops are gradually gaining the upper hand over the rebels.
He knew that Hooper had got the upper hand and that there was no escape.
to become difficult to control
It was the end of term and the children were getting a little out of hand.
A few solutions can prevent this problem from getting out of hand.
permission to make your own decisions about how you want to do something
The students were given a free hand as far as designing their product was concerned.
But unlike my parents, I wouldn't give my children a free hand in solving their problems.
to be very busy
Shelley has her hands full with three kids under 5.
This very fact made my father work as a slave, as he was the only breadwinner at home, my mother having her hands full with us four.
to do something illegal in order to punish someone because you know that the law will not punish that person
The police did nothing about the thefts, so they took the law into their own hands.
Therefore, locals are scared to death, leading to their taking the law into their own hands.
to give someone something
She handed me the letter.
The waiter smiled politely as he handed my bill to me.
Could you hand me that book, please?
Maybe you could hand me a paper with several questions I can answer, thus I would cover the work I miss.
used when you want to show that you admire someone
You have to hand it to Mick, he's done a good job on that kitchen.
She had saved the business, and of course everybody knew it. Begrudgingly they'd had to hand it to her.
a small bag for money, keys, make-up, etc. carried especially by women
I left my handbag on the train.
I received a lovely handbag and a blue scarf.
a game in which players hit a small hard rubber ball against a wall with their hands
We played handball yesterday.
a small number of people or things
Only a handful of people came to the meeting.
First of all, thank you for having invited me to this meeting on a matter which many people pretend to be expert at but which, in fact, is deeply known by only a handful of scholars.
describes something that is designed to be held and used easily with one or two hands
a hand-held camera/computer/device
Computer technology has been improving, from the first machines, which were so big that they had to be placed in special buildings, to hand-held devices in only 50 years.
a small piece of cloth or soft paper that you use to dry your eyes or nose
She dabbed her eyes with a handkerchief.
We are going to see a dramatic film, Era mio padre, so don't forget your handkerchief.
to deal with something
I thought he handled the problem/situation very well.
If you can't handle the job I'll get someone else to do it.
Who handles the marketing in your company?
He couldn't handle it and started to run in the rain, crying, thinking.
to touch, hold, or pick up something
You must wash your hands before handling food.
In India, people tend to handle food with their hands, I have been told most people eat without cutlery.
the part of something that you use to hold it or open it
a door handle
I can't pick the kettle up - the handle's too hot.
She turned the handle and slowly opened the door.
I saw my chair, my carpet... and my door handle!...
a copy of a document that is given to all the people in a class or meeting
On page two of your handout you will find a list of the books that I have referred to during the lecture.
During our course, I made an effort to follow the lectures, and, for instance, to check the unknown vocabulary which appeared in handouts.
A handsome man is attractive.
She's hoping that she'll meet a tall, dark, handsome stranger.
The main actor is very handsome too.
a large amount of money
They made a handsome profit on the sale of their house.
Secondly, from an economic stand-point, it is generally believed that international sports events only serve as a means for TV companies to monopolise entertainment while turning a handsome profit.
the way that someone forms the letters when they write with a pen or pencil
We need to ensure that handwriting is properly taught in our primary schools.
His handwriting is impossible to read.
I have pretty bad handwriting as you know from my letters, and with a computer and a printer I can avoid others who read my letters from being put off by my handwriting.
useful or easy to use
a handy container/tool
Such a possession may be something they use all the time, like a fountain pen for a writer, or a handy camera for a photographer, and they have become "dependent" on them.
to be useful at some time in the future
Don't throw those jars away - they might come in handy.
There's a washer and a dryer in the basement. I'm sure they'll come in handy with your new bundle of joy and the rest of your lovely bunch.
near to a place
It's a nice house and it's handy for the station.
Moreover, Suita is handy for shopping and leisure, which also makes our town attractive.
(hung, hung) to fasten or support something at the top leaving the other parts free to move, or to be held in this way
A heavy gold necklace hung around her neck.
The curtains hung in thick folds.
Hang your coat and hat on the rack over there.
She kept it in a tiny red bag which hung around her neck like a necklace.
(hanged or hung, hanged or hung) to kill someone by dropping them with a rope tied around their neck, or to die in this way
He was found guilty and hanged later that year.
The woman tried to hang herself with a sheet.
Their childhood was rather unhappy because their father was convicted of murder and hanged.
to stay in the air for a long time
Thick fog hung over the town.
The smog hangs over the cities like a deadly cloud, resulting in many health problems like pulmonary diseases and cancer.
to learn how to do something, especially if it is not obvious or simple
I've never used one of these before. - Don't worry, you'll soon get the hang of it.
It was quite hard to get the hang of it, as I didn't have any knowledge of English.
If an event or situation happens, it exists or starts to be done, usually by chance.
Were you there when the accident happened?
We can't let a mistake like this happen again.
I think it happened in his bedroom because I saw some sports clothes and we know he plays basketball.
to be the result of an action, situation, or event that someone or something experiences
Did you hear what happened to us last night?
What happens if we can't get enough tickets?
In most Czech families dinner is the only meal when everybody eats together and talks about everything that happened to them during that day.
to do something by chance
If you happen to see Peter, say "hi" for me.
You don't happen to know her phone number, do you?
I am certainly more confident and can understand whatever I happen to read in English, which is of course of the utmost importance for my work in this company.
something that you say in order to introduce a surprising fact
As it happens, her birthday is the day after mine.
As it happens, I am currently looking for a computer course for myself and I would like to join one of your courses.
in a happy way
He was happily married with two young children.
The baby sucked happily on a corner of her blanket.
Now we are happily married and I cannot stop thinking what would have happened if I had thrown away the e-mail...?
in a way that is very willing
I'd happily offer to help him if I thought it would make any difference.
I think young people would happily accept it.
having a good or lucky result
Happily, the operation was a complete success.
Happily, I had met a friend who could take me to school!
the feeling of being happy
It was only later in life that she found happiness and peace of mind.
Will you join me in wishing the bride and groom every happiness?
I wish you happiness, you deserve it.
feeling, showing or causing pleasure
She looks so/very happy.
I'm glad you've found someone who makes you happy.
a happy marriage/childhood
Nicky seems a lot happier since she met Steve.
I'm so happy (that) everything is working out for you.
I am very happy that I can go to college every day and I can see my friends every day.
something friendly that you say to someone on a special day or holiday
The card said 'Happy Anniversary' in big silver letters.
Happy Christmas!
Happy Anniversary!
Happy Halloween!
willing to do something
I'd be very happy to help, if you need a hand.
I would be very happy to help you with the concert.
satisfied and not worried
Are you happy with your exam results?
I'm not very happy about you travelling alone at night.
I am very happy with my computer.
behaviour that annoys or upsets someone
sexual harassment
However, they may be underpaid in comparison to men carrying out the same tasks, are seldom promoted - although they may be better qualified - and sometimes have to endure sexual harassment by their bosses.
an area of water next to the coast, often protected from the sea by a thick wall, where ships and boats can shelter
Our hotel room overlooked a pretty little fishing harbour.
The weather was fine so we went on a sight-seeing tour around the harbour.
difficult to understand or do
There were some really hard questions in the exam.
It's hard being a single mother.
Her handwriting is very hard to read.
The topics get harder later in the course.
I don't like grammar. English grammar is hard for me.
firm and stiff, and not easy to press or bend
a hard surface
There was a heavy frost last night and the ground is still hard.
We have to bring with us three pencils, two hard pencils and one soft.
needing or using a lot of physical or mental effort
Go on - give it a good hard push!
It was hard work on the farm but satisfying.
It's the perfect place to stay and relax after a week of hard work.
to criticize someone too much, or to treat them unfairly
Don't be too hard on him - he's new to the job.
That's why I was a little hard on you at first.
not gentle or kind
She had a cold, hard look in her eyes.
To conclude, I'd like to apologise for being maybe a "bit too nasty" to you, but these "hard words", were due only to my hurt feelings!
full of problems and difficult to deal with
My grandparents had a very hard life.
The past few months must've been really hard for you.
It was a really hard time for all of us, but it passed and, I hope, will never come again.
to do or learn something by experiencing a lot of problems or difficulty
I learned the hard way that training every single day is not the best way to get fit.
If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
to make someone unhappy by causing them problems
Our divorce has been particularly hard on the children.
Also it was hard on our family only seeing my father late at night being tired or for a weekend, if he was not on a business-trip.
to criticize someone and make them feel guilty about something they have done
Ever since I missed the goal, the other players have been giving me a hard time.
I'm not saying that I wasn't normal or anything, I just gave my family a hard time sometimes.
with a lot of physical or mental effort
She tried very hard but she wasn't quite fast enough.
You'll have to work harder, if you want to pass this exam.
I don't like to work very hard and very late in the classroom and I don't like computers.
with a lot of force
It's been raining hard all day.
She kicked the ball as hard as she could.
It was a cloudy day, the wind was blowing hard, and the city was quiet.
the part inside a computer that is not removed and that stores very large amounts of information
A virus damaged my hard drive.
As you know, computer prices are getting lower every day and technology is growing so fast so I thought that if I waited more and began saving money, I could buy a new computer with new stuff (better chip, hard drive etc.) in six months time.
almost not, or only a very small amount
We hardly ever go to concerts.
I could hardly hear her at the back.
The party had hardly started when she left.
He ate hardly anything.
Well, my bedroom hardly ever looks tidy.
certainly not
You can hardly expect a pay rise when you've only been working for the company for two weeks!
Well don't be angry with me - it's hardly my fault that it's raining!
And then, although you have allowed me to use all your stuff, I hardly think I can touch your computer and the CD player.
a problem or situation that makes you suffer a lot, especially because you are very poor
They have suffered years of financial hardship.
However, I have to say that this plan would cause much inconvenience and hardship for our local residents.
the physical and electronic parts of a computer, rather than the programs
We need to include new hardware in our budget.
Computer technology keeps improving all the time and consumers like me and you definitely have to pay our money to keep our personal computer up to date and able to work with new computer software that requires better and better performance of computer hardware.
doing a job seriously and with a lot of effort
She's a very hard-working student.
I think I am suitable for the job because, apart from all the above, I am hard-working, well-educated and imaginative.
hurt or damage
Smoking can cause serious harm to the lungs.
Alan would never do anyone any harm.
Missing a meal once in a while never did anyone any harm.
She was frightened by the experience but she came to no harm.
It is true that the car does us harm.
used to say that something is not a bad thing to do and could possibly have a good effect
I suppose there's no harm in trying.
There is no lack of good language schools and there is no harm in trying another one the next time.
to hurt someone or damage something
Thankfully no one was harmed in the accident.
The government's reputation has already been harmed by a series of scandals.
But in those places animals were harmed and died easily.
causing harm
This group of chemicals is known to be harmful to people with asthma.
In addition, books are not harmful to our health as computers sometimes are.
not able or not likely to cause harm
Taken in small doses, this drug is completely/totally harmless.
In conclusion, cars are not as harmless as they look so we must stop using them so much.
not likely to shock or upset people or to cause problems
Their jokes seemed harmless enough.
Peter might look a bit fierce, but actually he's fairly harmless.
He seemed harmless enough so I decided to take a nap. Suddenly I heard a strange noise and I was terrified to hear his loud voice booming in my ear.
when people are peaceful and agree with each other, or when different things seem right or suitable together
living together in peace and harmony
I would like to think my children are going to live in a lovely world where the human being will be able to live in peace and harmony with the environment.
a pleasant sound in music, made by playing or singing a group of different notes together
The choir sang in perfect harmony.
Their voices produced beautiful harmonies.
Having some singing knowledge myself, I can say their performance was excellent: the tune was maintained all through the concert, the rhythm was also carefully kept and they sounded in perfect harmony.
very cold, dangerous, or unpleasant and difficult to live in
harsh conditions
Furthermore, I have been trained for a year in living in harsh conditions.
cruel, unkind, or unpleasant in a way that seems unfair
harsh criticism/punishment
Taking him out of the game was a bit harsh.
Sorry if I sounded so harsh in the letter but I felt it was important to make these points.
too strong, bright, loud, etc.
harsh chemicals/lighting
It only contains herbs and plant extracts so it would not be too harsh a product for the skin and will not destroy the skin's natural defences.
in a harsh way
I thought she'd been treated rather harshly.
The public television is harshly criticised for joining the commercial flow of the private stations and targeting large audiences, instead of presenting more ambitious programmes of high quality.
when crops are cut and collected from fields
the grain/potato/grape harvest
We had a good/bad/poor harvest this year.
Well I can tell you about our annual harvest festival.
something you wear to cover your head, for fashion or protection
a straw hat
a woolly hat
I want to wear this hat when I go to my grandmother's house.
to dislike someone or something very much
Kelly hates her teacher.
She hated the winter.
I hate it when you do that.
I have always hated speaking in public.
I love rock and techno but I hate rap.
a strong dislike for someone or something
Hate and bigotry can only make our lives more difficult.
Feelings of hate and disgust may fill us, but we may love somebody. Many people say that love and hate go together.
an extremely strong feeling of dislike
What is very clear in these letters is Clark's passionate hatred of his father.
The motive for this shocking attack seems to be racial hatred.
The producers create situations involving different feelings such as love, hatred, anger, fear,...
to pull something somewhere slowly and with difficulty
They hauled the piano into the living room.
"When I'm finished, you can jump whenever you like. Remember to hold on to each other, and we'll haul you up when it's all over."
an amount of something that has been stolen or that is owned illegally
a haul of arms/drugs
Because of the loud noise of the running engine, she wasn't aware of the man behind her grabbing the smaller bag and turning round ready to escape with his haul.
If a ghost haunts a place, it appears there often.
They say that the house is haunted by the soldier's ghost.
The castle is 500 years old, and it is said to be haunted by a lady ghost.
If an unpleasant memory or feeling haunts you, you think about or feel it often.
Fighting in Vietnam was an experience that would haunt him for the rest of his life.
Thirty years after the fire he is still haunted by images of death and destruction.
And so John remained alone, haunted by the terrible loss.
used with the past participle of another verb to form the present and past perfect tenses
Have you seen Roz?
I've passed my test.
He hasn't visited London yet.
I'd met his wife before.
It would have been better to tell the truth.
He's been working in France for two years now.
I haven't seen you for ages.
to need to do something or be forced to do something
I've got to go to Manchester tomorrow.
Do we have to finish this today?
They've had to change their plans.
Dear Mr Miller, Unfortunately I'm going to miss the English class tomorrow because I'm ill. Yesterday I went to the doctor and he said that I've got to stay at home for three days.
used when you are telling someone how to do something
You have to wait for the green light and then record your voice.
You've got to type in your name, then your password.
To get to my house, you have to get bus number 30 to town, and there you have to get bus number 15 to Spring Bank.
used to say that you feel certain that something is true or will happen
Interest rates have to come down at some point.
There's (=there has) got to be a better way of doing this.
There has to be a solution to this.
to own or possess
They have a big house.
He has blue eyes.
I've got two brothers.
He's got a degree.
She has a lot of experience.
Have you got time to finish the report today?
I had a big house in Somalia, now I have a small house.
If you have a particular illness, you suffer from it.
I've got a cold.
Have you ever had measles?
I know you had the flu.
to eat or drink something
I had prawns and rice for lunch.
Can I have a drink of water?
Let's have a coffee before the film.
When are we having dinner?
I have dinner at 5 pm.
to give birth to a baby
Elaine had a baby girl yesterday.
She had got married and had had a baby without telling me!
to experience something
Have a nice day!
We had a great time in Venice.
We had a few problems finding the house.
Did you have any luck finding a present for Annie?
We played a lot of games and had fun.
used with nouns to say that someone does something
Can I have a quick shower?
Let's have a walk along the river.
If you want you can have a shower after playing tennis.
to pay someone to do something for you
I'm having my hair cut this afternoon.
I've had my watch mended.
We're having the house painted next month.
My mother is having her car repaired.
If you have something stolen/taken, etc. someone takes something that belongs to you.
She had her car stolen last week.
I had my bag taken.
He told me over the phone that he had arrived in London with his wife, but shortly after the arrival, he had had his wallet stolen in the underground station.
to cause something to be in a particular state
He had dinner ready by the time we got home.
We had the tent up within ten minutes.
We had everything ready in case of an emergency or a chaos situation.
used to say that someone is holding something, or that someone or something is with them
He had a pen in his hand.
She had a little boy with her.
Maria had the phone in her hand.
to not know
"Where's Serge?" "I've no idea."
I have no idea about how his children are.
If you have someone over/round, etc. you arrange for someone to visit you in your home.
We had Justyna and Al round for dinner last week.
I'd like to thank you once more for having me round to your house.
to be completely unable to guess, understand, or deal with something
I haven't a clue what you're talking about.
I haven't a clue about it.
to talk to someone for a short time
Could I have a word (with you) about the sales figures?
Perhaps you would a quiet word with Simon about the problem.
The nurse sitting beside me said to me, 'Your mother would like to have a word with you,' then she went out.
to have no connection or influence with someone or something
He made his own decision - I had nothing to do with it.
Of course, I tried to explain to him that I had nothing to do with the vanishing of the cake but he didn't trust me.
If something is or has nothing to do with you, you have no good reason to know about it or be involved with it.
I wish he wouldn't offer advice on my marriage - it's nothing to do with him.
The party was horrible: the guests were all talking about things that had nothing to do with me.
to have a reason not to like someone or something
I've got nothing against him personally, I just don't think he's the right man for the job.
If you have nothing against taking public transport, I suggest taking a bus.
to arrange for someone to do something
If you wait, I'll have someone collect it for you.
I'll have my secretary call her this afternoon.
I would like to request you, as a manager, to either have someone fix the problem with the microwave or simply replace it.
to dislike someone and want to cause problems for them
She really has it in for me - I don't know what I've done to offend her.
Only then did she realise that somebody had it in for her.
used to emphasize that you do not know something
I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.
Some twenty years ago, when I left my parents' home to go and live on my own, I was given four mugs. By whom? I haven't the faintest idea.
something that is dangerous
a fire hazard
a health hazard
Like all things, mobile phones have advantages and disadvantages. ... It is said that they produce cancer and that they are a health hazard.
dangerous
hazardous chemicals
They are faced with hazardous chemical reactions when trying to gain new knowledge and therefore people should be very grateful to them.
used to refer to a man, boy or male animal that has already been mentioned
Don't ask Andrew, he won't know.
There's no need to be frightened - he's a very friendly dog.
He is from Hungary.
the part of the body above the neck which contains your brain, eyes, nose, mouth, ears, etc. and on which your hair grows
Put this hat on to keep your head warm.
He fell and hit his head on the table.
She nodded/shook her head.
You must wear a cap on your head.
the person in charge of a school
You'll have to ask the head for permission.
If I can't do my homework, my teacher will send me to the head teacher.
the person who is in charge of an organization or a part of an organization
the head of an oil company
Our head of department is leaving on Friday.
He is head chef at a large restaurant.
Joshua was the head of security of the international airport of New York.
the mind and mental abilities
All these thoughts were going round in my head.
What put that into your head?
Then suddenly the idea came into my head and I told her: 'Why don't you move into my flat?'
to stop being calm in a difficult situation
I saw the fire and I lost my head.
She has never lost her head in dangerous situations and she always knows what to do.
to remain calm in a difficult situation
To be successful in business, you need to keep a cool head in negotiations.
Kevin managed to keep a cool head and took over the navigation.
to have just enough money to live or to continue a business
With extra income from private sponsorship, the club is just about managing to keep its head above water.
I also started to realise how much she had on her plate, how very little help she had and how, at times, she had to struggle just like me to keep her head above water.
to laugh/shout/scream, etc. very much and very loudly
When she saw the gun, she started screaming her head off.
Other pupils were laughing their heads off as she went.
the front or top part of something
Who is that at the head of the table?
There, at the head of the queue, her uncle with his two daughters waited for her.
somewhere to live
He took me in when I didn't have a roof over my head.
As for the new homes for local people it seems to be that it will be of particular importance to homeless people, who will feel that they have a roof over their head without having to pay anything.
to move in a particular direction
I was heading out of the room when she called me back.
We were heading towards Kumasi when our truck broke down.
He headed straight for the fridge.
I think we ought to head back/home now, before it gets too dark.
Then I headed for the dining room.
to be in charge of a group, organization, etc.
She heads one of Britain's leading travel firms.
Judge Hawthorne was chosen to head the inquiry.
When Carlos headed the government, the country saw important changes, such as Free Trade among Canada, USA and Mexico; the selling of the banks; "democratic" elections.
to be at the front or top of something
Jo headed a very short list of candidates.
When it comes to money paid to the families, Germany headed the list with 2%, followed by Spain with 0.25% and the USA with 0.2%.
a pain you feel inside your head
I've got a splitting headache.
He said he feels sick and has a headache.
words at the top of a piece of writing that tell you what it is about
You'll find it under the heading 'Information for new students'.
As the advertisement included the heading "Come and discover the career of your dreams!", my attention was drawn to it.
the title of a newspaper story that is printed in large letters above it
a front-page headline
The headline was "FAILURE OF FESTIVAL".
the main stories in newspapers, on television, etc.
That story made headlines all over the world.
the place from where an organization is controlled
The company's headquarters are in Amsterdam.
I took my car and drove to the Police headquarters.
the person in charge of a school
He was sent to the headteacher.
My headteacher had already put up a notice: Lost at school.
If a wound or broken bone heals, it becomes healthy again, and if something heals it, it makes it healthy again.
The wound on his head had begun to heal (up).
Biotechnology is providing us with the latest discoveries to heal or improve the human body.
the condition of your body
to be in good/poor health
Regular exercise is good for your health.
I had to stop eating salty foods for health reasons.
I like it very much because I think playing football is good for my health.
the set of services provided by a country or an organization for treating people who are ill
A large proportion of these taxes go towards providing health care.
Healthcare workers are some of the lowest paid people in the country.
In Britain, the NHS provides free health care for every citizen.
physically strong and well
She's a normal, healthy child.
He looks healthy enough.
Hope you are fine and healthy!
good for your health
a healthy diet
Lithuanian people eat natural (but not healthy) food.
successful and strong
a healthy economy
The future for independent bookshops doesn't look very healthy.
Still, these investments are needed, as they are essential for a healthy economy.
an untidy pile of things
a heap of rubbish
Her mother was often out and Sue had nobody to share her thoughts with except for an old red diary with a lock. She kept it in her bedroom under the heap of old toys nobody cared for any more.
a lot of something
He's got heaps of money.
Apart from that, my overseas stay has made me believe that children who are brought up in families that do not have heaps of money are prepared for their life as an adult in a way that people who have always had money may never understand.
to be aware of a sound through your ears
She heard a noise outside.
My grandfather is getting old and can't hear very well.
You'll have to speak up, I can't hear you.
I could hear someone calling my name.
I can hear birds singing there.
to listen to someone or something
I heard a programme about tigers on the radio.
I heard her sing in New York.
I like soft rock music, and I would like to hear it at the concert.
to be told some information
Have you heard the news?
If you haven't heard by Friday, assume I'm not coming.
Have you heard what's happened?
I hear (that) you're leaving.
After, she told me that my mother-in-law had arrived in the city and, obviously, when I heard that, I started to cry.
the organ in your chest that sends the blood around your body
heart disease/failure
He's got a weak/bad heart.
My father is going to have heart surgery.
someone's deepest feelings and true character
a broken heart
She has a big/good heart.
In his heart, he knew she was right.
She's very nice, a person with a good heart.
the centre of something or the most important part of something
The demonstrators will march through the heart of the capital.
A disagreement about boundaries is at the heart of the dispute.
This restaurant is in the heart of Tepec, and it is open from 10.00am to 6.00pm except on Friday.
a shape that is used to mean love
The card had a big heart on the front.
It had a red rose in its hand and a t-shirt with a big red heart saying "I love you". That was it!
used to say that you feel something very strongly
I thank you with all my heart.
With this letter, I want to thank you with all my heart for your hospitality during my visit to you.
so that you can remember all of something
We had to learn the whole poem off by heart.
I know all his songs by heart and I was singing all the time.
to make someone feel extremely sad
She really broke his heart when she left.
It breaks my heart when I hear the terrible things that have been said about him.
I saw them kissing each other. That was it - when I saw that scene, it broke my heart.
used to say what you really think
In his heart he felt they were wrong.
It is all because it was followed by a big mistake, when I focussed on the German language and thought is was my dream. I have to admit that it was only a sensible decision, because deep in my heart I knew I wanted to learn English.
used to say what someone is really like
I'm just a kid at heart.
I also thought that she was brave at heart.
to tell someone your secret thoughts and feelings
That night, she opened her heart to me and I think that's when I fell in love with her.
It is during this excessively dramatic conversation that George opening up his heart, tells her about his interpretation of her unhappiness with Cecil.
If you take criticism or advice to heart, you think about it seriously, often because it upsets you
Don't take it to heart - he was only joking about your hair.
I hope you will take my advice to heart.
to stop believing that you can succeed
Don't lose heart, there'll be plenty more chances for promotion.
In that way, we learn to deal with our problems and not to lose heart.
If you have a change of heart, you change your opinion or feelings about something.
At first he said he wouldn't help us, but he seems to have had a change of heart.
The narrator didn't tell her big secret to Inder Lal and after a change of heart she decides to keep the baby.
If something is dear to someone or dear to their heart, it is very important to them.
The charity was very dear to his heart.
Among all the places I enjoyed visiting, the city of Singapore is especially dear to my heart.
a serious medical condition in which the heart does not get enough blood, causing great pain and often leading to death
John had a heart attack three years ago.
I was really surprised when I read the e-mail, and discovered that our father had had a heart attack.
the quality of being hot or warm, or the temperature of something
the heat of the sun/fire
How do you manage to work in this heat without air conditioning?
She always wore a coat, even in the heat of summer.
Cook the meat on a high/low heat.
The weather is magnificent, it's very hot but you can't feel the heat because if you go swimming it passes.
to make food hot so that it can be eaten
I'll just heat up the soup.
Do not spend your money on fast-food restaurants, and do not buy meals to heat up in your microwave.
a machine that heats air or water
a gas/electric heater
I have decided to buy a new carpet and a little heater.
the system that keeps a building warm
Is the heating on?
If you didn't have any heating you would be cold.
according to some religions, the place where good people go when they die
They told us that she had gone to heaven.
"Now she is in heaven - don't worry she will be okay." I started crying.
something very nice that gives you great pleasure
I just lay in the sun for a week and did nothing - it was heaven.
This cake is absolute heaven.
These little islands are just heaven.
very nice
a heavenly day
The Art Gallery was well presented and the exhibits were heavenly.
a lot or to a great degree
It was raining heavily.
drink/smoke heavily
The terrorists are heavily armed.
She's heavily involved in the project.
One day, when I was walking out in the park with my friend, it started raining heavily.
Heavy objects weigh a lot.
heavy equipment
heavy bags/suitcases
My phone is awesome. It is very small and I like it because it isn't heavy and I can listen to music with it.
used to ask how much someone or something weighs
How heavy is your backpack?
large in amount or degree
heavy traffic
heavy rain/snow
a heavy smoker/drinker
There is fresh air, no heavy traffic and, more important for me, it is a quiet and calm place.
using a lot of force
a heavy blow
heavy breathing
Every time planes from your airport fly overhead he imagines the horrors of the war he's lived through and experiences ... distress in the form of his palms sweating, heavy breathing, and increased pulse and heart beat.
extremely busy and full of activity
a hectic day/week
Alongside today's hectic life we need to adapt fashion to our lives and interests.
a row of bushes growing close together, often used to divide land into separate areas
She planted a hedge along the back of the garden.
Besides, people should be allowed to sit under the trees. At present, the lawn, bushes and hedges aren't open to people.
the part of a shoe that is under your heel
The boots had a very high heel.
I hate wearing tight clothes, or shoes with high heels.
the back part of your foot
The sharp stone dug into my heel.
how tall or high something or someone is
She's about my height.
The sheer height of New York's skyscrapers is so impressive.
The tower measures 27.28 metres in height.
I would prefer not to stay in a tent because of my height, I am so tall that I could never stand up.
how far above the ground something is
The aircraft was flying at a height of about 6000 metres.
All the pictures we took were nice, but the most beautiful one was the picture of Patricia and I at the top of the mountain "Kala Pattar", which is situated at a height of 5,600 metres!
the strongest, most important or most successful part of something
I met him when he was at the height of his fame.
At the height of his success, he was told he had cancer and he had to interrupt his career, but only to come back some years later to show off his best.
a person who will have the legal right to someone's money and possessions when they die
He is the heir to a huge fortune.
The new will stated that Emma was the sole heir and inheritor of the property and money of her father.
an aircraft which flies using long, thin parts on top of it that turn round and round very fast
The injured were flown to hospital by helicopter.
a helicopter pilot
I got here by boat because it doesn't have an airport and it's too difficult for helicopters to land.
according to some religions, the place where bad people go when they die
I'll go to hell for this.
We decided to enter the attic and then, as if coming from hell, a big, dirty, old cat ran away through our legs.
an experience that is very unpleasant
It's been hell working with him.
Work is sheer hell at the moment.
The last few months have been absolute hell.
However, this apparently relaxed activity can sometimes turn into a living hell; you may only be able to go shopping at the weekend and then, if you do go, you will find yourself in the middle of a huge crowd of people, unable to get to any product or even shop and feeling dizzy by the mixture of smells that come from the people.
used to emphasize something in a rude or angry way
What the hell are you doing here?
He was yelling again: "What the hell is going on?"
used to say that someone or something is very good, big, etc.
a hell of a noise
He's one hell of a tennis player.
Secondly, I particularly appreciated the length of classes confined to some 5 hours a day, which offered the possibility of studying at length on your own and a hell of a lot of time to spare.
very much
It's raining like hell out there.
Soon it will be dark, and still pouring down like hell.
used to greet someone
Hello, Paul. I haven't seen you for ages.
I just thought I'd call by and say hello.
Hello Fatima, how are you?
used to start a conversation on the phone
"Hello, I'd like some information about your flights to the USA, please."
a hard hat that protects your head
a crash helmet
a cycling helmet
Some good advice is: first of all get yourself a good bicycle, a helmet and some protective clothes, in case the weather changes.
to make it easier for someone to do something by doing part of the work yourself
Thank you for helping.
Shall I help you to cook tonight?
Dad always helps me with my homework.
But the people help me and it's okay.
to provide advice, money, support, etc. to make it possible or easier for someone to do something
I wonder if you could help me - I'd like some information about flights to New Zealand.
My dad said he would help with the costs of buying a house.
I feel that learning English will help my chances of promotion at work.
I hope that my information helps you to plan your trip.
to be unable to stop yourself doing something or to stop something happening
I can't help laughing when I think about what happened to you both!
I couldn't help thinking about what had happened.
He couldn't help it, he slipped.
I got so sad that I couldn't help crying.
to take something, especially food or drink, without asking
Please help yourself to some coffee.
Some tables with sandwiches, salads and drinks are going to be available for you to help yourselves.
to make something better
When you're nervous or frightened, it helps to breathe slowly and deeply.
The medicine didn't seem to help (the pain).
Everybody agrees with the importance of doing exercise regularly, it helps to take out the toxins from the body.
when someone helps another person
I was too embarrassed to ask for help.
Do you need any help with those boxes?
Her parents gave her some help with her bank loan.
If you need any help, I can bring food and drinks, but I can only come on Sundays.
using something
We managed to assemble the table with the help of the instructions.
The film was full of special effects created with the help of computer graphics, and it was very good.
something or someone that helps
Having a new computer would be a help.
He was a great help (to me) while my husband was away.
Two weeks ago I made a trip to Britain, and 'The Student Tourist Guidebook' was a great help when I visited Lampton.
something that you shout when you are in danger
Help! I'm drowning!
She was really shocked and she screamed "Help!"
someone who helps another person to do something
The teachers make great use of volunteer helpers.
I'll be more than happy to work as a helper.
willing to help, or useful
She's such a pleasant, helpful child!
I'm sorry, I was only trying to be helpful.
He made several helpful suggestions.
The teacher is wonderful, she is so kind and helpful to everyone.
not able to defend yourself or do things without help
a helpless animal/child
I remember one day in school how helpless I felt because I had forgotten my glasses at home.
for this reason
He's got an interview today, hence the suit.
Drivers have been shown to adapt their behaviour according to perceived risk. Hence, if they are wearing seat belts, they tend to take more risks with their driving.
Hence, the more competition there is, the more benefits are given to both people and society.
used after a verb or preposition to refer to someone female who has already been talked about
Where's Kath - have you seen her?
She can learn many English words because she is working with people, and then I learn these words from her.
belonging to or relating to someone female who has already been talked about
That's her house on the corner.
It's not her fault.
Every Sunday, she goes to see her mother.
a plant that is used in cooking to add flavour to food or is used in medicines
dried/fresh herbs
Basil, oregano, thyme and rosemary are all herbs.
A large range of herbs and spices are used in South Asian cookery.
He was chattering with his parents and drinking warm milk with the smell of fresh herbs and flowers.
in the place where you are
Does Jane live near here?
Come here!
I've lived here for about two years.
London is only 50 miles from here.
Come here - I've got something to show you.
It says here that she was born in 1984.
He lives in Galicia, but now he's here in Cambridge to study English.
used when saying who you are on the phone
Hello, it's Tim here.
used when you are giving someone something
Here's a present for you.
"Have you got the paper?" "Yes. Here you are."
Dear Jo, Here is some information about the art class.
used when you see someone or something you have been looking for or waiting for
Here she is at last.
Here's our bus.
I've lost my watch - oh, here it is.
at this point in a discussion or piece of writing
I don't have time here to go into all the arguments.
My idea here is to highlight the fact that computers are going to control our lives.
in several different places or directions but without any pattern
Tall trees were growing here and there.
In the cinemas there were a few broken seats here and there.
the buildings, paintings, customs, etc. which are important in a culture or society because they have existed for a long time
our architectural/cultural heritage
We have already created a list of possible destinations with rich cultural heritage.
someone who does something brave or good, which people respect or admire them for
a war hero
He became a national hero for his part in the revolution.
They consider her a hero.
Graham says he'll take my parents to the airport at four o'clock in the morning - what a hero!
I couldn't believe it and while I was wondering if this was a dream, Mike Skinner, my hero, appeared and instantly started chatting with me as if we had been friends for years.
the main male character in a book or film, who is usually good
the hero of her latest novel
The film was very exciting because it was an action film and the hero was strong.
very brave
a heroic figure
a heroic act/deed
I would be thrilled if I could lead thousands of warriors into heroic battles to conquer the world.
If someone makes a heroic effort to do something, they work very hard to try to do it.
In spite of England's heroic efforts, they lost the match.
Individually or in organised groups, those who worry about the subject are making a heroic attempt to convince others of the importance of recycling, caring about the wildlife and sparing the woods from fire or massive exploitation.
used to show that something belongs to or is connected with a woman, girl, or female animal that has just been mentioned
Jenny and I both have red hair, but hers is lighter than mine.
I just met a cousin of hers.
The CD is important to me because I have to give it back to my sister. It is hers.
the reflexive form of the pronoun 'she'
She kept telling herself that nothing was wrong.
My mother would worry herself to death if she knew what I was doing.
She wanted to kill herself!
alone or without anyone else's help
She lives by herself in an enormous house.
Holly's only three but she wrote her name all by herself.
She couldn't manage to lift it herself.
She decorated the cake herself.
It's my favourite present because my sister made it by herself.
used to emphasize the pronoun 'she' or the particular female person you are referring to
She herself admitted that it was wrong.
She herself, through her books, transfers to mature and elderly people too.
to pause before doing something, especially because you are nervous or not certain
Richard hesitated before answering.
"Do you love me?" she asked. He hesitated and then said, "I'm not sure."
So, don't hesitate to buy that CD, it's a masterpiece and undoubtedly you'll love it.
used to encourage someone to do something
Please don't hesitate to get in touch if you need any more advice.
If you have more questions, do not hesitate to contact me.
when you are very willing to do something because you know it is the right thing to do
He had no hesitation in signing for the team.
I think that Juan Pablo is a very well qualified applicant for this job, and I have no hesitation in supporting him wholeheartedly.
when you pause before doing something, especially because you are nervous or not certain
After a moment's hesitation, he unlocked the door.
Despite being a two-dimensional character, Mrs Kingshaw's existence aids in the flow of events as she forces Charles into committing suicide without the slightest hesitation.
used as a way of attracting someone's attention, or as a greeting
Hey! What are you doing with my car?
Hey, are you guys coming to Angela's party?
Jesse: Hey, how are you?
hello
Hi, there!
Hi, how're you doing?
Hi Ramesh.
A hidden thing or place is not easy to find.
a hidden valley
There were hidden microphones in the room to record their conversation.
But to her surprise the policeman laughed and said, "You are the winner of our hidden camera contest".
If something is hidden, most people do not know about it.
hidden costs/taxes
Harry had a hidden agenda at the meeting and was determined to get his way.
I think this is a hidden danger of having a mobile phone and therefore the disadvantages are not as obvious as the advantage.
to put something in a place where it cannot be seen or found
She used to hide her diary under her pillow.
The papers were hidden under the floorboards.
Lord Alloway hid the suitcase to protect it.
to go to a place where you cannot be seen or found
She ran off and hid behind a tree.
They hid themselves in the wardrobe.
The plan is to bring him to my house, and everybody will hide in the living room. When he enters the room, we will shout 'Surprise'.
to keep a feeling or information secret
He couldn't hide his embarrassment.
There's something about her past that she's trying to hide from me.
I knew that you loved each other more than anything in this world, but I couldn't hide my surprise when you told me that you're getting married.
using a system that arranges things according to their importance
The company has a very hierarchical structure.
On the other hand, being too submissive will not help you in going up in a hierarchical structure.
a system or organization in which people or things are arranged according to their importance
There is a very strict hierarchy where I work.
It is well known that clothes used to reflect the position that each individual had in the social hierarchy of our societies.
having a large distance from the bottom to the top
a high building/mountain
And also you can see high mountains and beautiful lakes.
a large distance above the ground or the level of the sea
a high window
The village was high up in the mountains.
Looking out of the window, I can see the birds high up on the trees.
great in amount, size or level
a high temperature
high prices/costs
The car sped away at high speed.
Be careful while you are in Brazil because sometimes people charge really high prices for everything just because you are a tourist.
very good
high standards/quality
She got high marks in her last exam.
There were lots of CD players and everything was high quality.
important, powerful, or at the top level of something
a high rank
Safety is our highest priority.
Living is definitely the highest priority all over the world.
If a food is high in something, it contains a lot of it.
Avoid foods that are high in salt.
Since there is no time even for cooking a healthy meal, they get used to ready meals that are high in fat and salt.
If someone is high, they are behaving in an unusual way because they have taken an illegal drug.
The whole band seemed to be high on drugs.
As he was in that enormous garden covering himself with leaves lying on his back, he realised that he didn't want to watch the end of the Universe there in that place, but because he was so high on drugs he didn't even realise that he could simply stand up and go home.
at or to a large distance above the ground
We flew high above the city.
He threw the ball high into the air.
Being in the cabin high above Vienna both of them thought about killing the other.
at or to a large amount or level
Temperatures rose as high as 40 degrees.
Can we expect to see the world unemployment rate reach as high as fifty percent?
to emphasize something or make people notice something
to highlight a problem/danger
The report highlights the need for stricter regulations.
Electricity in general has been absorbed into our daily activities in such an intense way that we tend to take it for granted and it is exactly when it is not available that our dependency on it is highlighted.
to make something a different colour so that is is more easily noticed, especially written words
The spelling mistakes in the text had been highlighted in yellow.
the best or most important part of something
The boat trip was one of the highlights of the holiday.
The Festival is one of the highlights of the year for me and many others.
at a high level
a highly paid job
a highly educated workforce
I am a 24-year-old highly educated Turkish boy.
very or to a large degree
a highly effective treatment
We are highly unlikely to meet anyone here.
Now it features a highly effective searching system.
to have or express a very good opinion of someone or something
The course is very highly thought of.
This in itself would speak highly of the school and will attract many candidates and parents.
A high-profile person or event is known about by a lot of people and receives a lot of attention from television, newspapers, etc.
a high-profile campaign/case
This is the main significant reason why sportsmen and sportswomen are now considered as high-profile celebrities.
using or involved with the most recent and advanced electronic machines, computers, etc.
His new car has a high-tech sound system.
We can build up a high-tech computer lab, and last but not least, we can provide some talented students with scholarships.
extremely funny
They all thought the film was hilarious.
In addition to this, the hosts and actors of the show have very few boundaries and are not afraid to make fools out of themselves, which means that they can do things that most people find very embarrassing, and this is something that contributes to making the show hilarious.
a raised area of land, smaller than a mountain
We walked up/down the hill to the village.
They climbed the hill to get a better view.
Their house is on the top of a hill.
We can travel to Sierra de la Fentene, it is a nice village, and there are a lot of hills and streams.
used after a verb or preposition to refer to someone male who has already been talked about
If you see Kevin give him my love.
What's Terry up to - I haven't seen him for ages.
We've just got a new cat, but we haven't named him yet.
His name is Christopher but we all call him Hóby.
the reflexive form of the pronoun 'he'
He'd cut himself shaving.
Most nights he would cry himself to sleep.
He woke up and the suitcase wasn't there... that day he threw himself from the 10th floor of a building.
alone or without anyone else's help
He built the house all by himself.
He lives by himself in a remote village.
Did he do all this work himself?
And Ramundo gave me one special T-shirt, because he made that by himself!
used to emphasize the pronoun 'he' or the particular male person you are referring to
Did you want to talk to the chairman himself, or could his personal assistant help you?
But no one would like to be behind bars himself.
to make it difficult to do something or for something to develop
His performance at the Olympics was hindered by a knee injury.
Nothing, however, could hinder him from gaining more power and money.
when you say something that suggests what you think or want, but not in a direct way
He's dropped several hints to the boss that he'll quit if he doesn't get a promotion.
Did she give you any hints about where she was going?
You can't take a hint, can you? Just go away and leave me alone!
He didn't take a hint. When that day had come, I timidly approached him and gave him my final words of warning.
a small piece of advice
The magazine gives lots of useful hints on how to save money.
I would like to make use of this offer, therefore I am writing down some helpful hints about Lampton.
a small amount of something
There was a hint of anger in her voice.
The sky was leaden and overcast and there was a hint of drizzle in the air.
one of the two parts of your body above your leg and below your waist
She stood waiting with her hands on her hips.
This exercise is designed to trim your hips and stomach.
She had a fractured ankle, a dislocated collar-bone and something was also wrong with her hips.
a kind of music that originally developed among African Americans, where the words to songs are spoken and not sung
The station plays mainly hip-hop and R&B music.
Nick, I like hip hop and rock very much and most of the students agree with me.
to pay to use something for a short time
How much would it cost to hire a car for a fortnight?
You could always hire a dress for the ball if you can't afford to buy one.
We hired two bicycles in Bocastle village.
to begin to to employ someone
I was hired by the first company I applied to.
We ought to hire a public relations consultant to help improve our image.
The interview was OK and my friend and I were hired!
belonging to or relating to someone male who has already been talked about
Alex is sitting over there with his daughter.
It's not his fault.
"Jo's got a new boyfriend." "Oh really? What's his name?"
I like his cooking very much.
the things that belong or relate to someone male who has already been talked about
That's Frank's coat over there - at least I think it's his.
I borrowed them from a friend of his.
When he looked at the suitcase carefully, he realised it wasn't his.
someone who writes about or studies history
His father was a famous historian.
I would be very willing to help historians solve the enigma about the origin of Thailand.
important or likely to be important in history
historic buildings
a historic day/moment
I know you and I understand that you are coming to my country to visit ancient castles and historic buildings, so I recommend you to visit Rome: a fantastic city!
relating to events or people in the past, or to the study of history
Many important historical documents were destroyed when the library was bombed.
She specializes in historical novels set in eighteenth-century England.
Budapest is very beautiful with a lot of historical buildings and churches.
in a way that is connected to history
The film makes no attempt to be historically accurate.
Historically, there have always been close links between France and Scotland.
Well, maybe this brief description of my travel in time is not historically accurate; nevertheless I hope that you have enjoyed yourself reading it as much as I did writing it, and I hope you will consider it worthy of publication in your magazine.
the whole series of events in the past which relate to the development of a country, subject, or person
The Civil War was a terrible time in American history.
What do you know about the history of jazz?
I liked it very much because it was about Chinese history.
the study of events in the past
He's very interested in modern European history.
a history book
Dear Nicolas, I think I left my history book in your house.
If you have a history of a particular problem or illness, you have already suffered from it.
a man with a history of drug addiction
The characteristic we are born with is to a certain level affected by genetic factors e.g. if a mother has a history of depression her daughter or son will also have higher chance of getting depression.
to touch someone or something quickly and with force using your hand or an object in your hand
She hit him on the head with her tennis racket.
Teachers are not allowed to hit their pupils.
When I went in, somebody hit me with a pan!
to touch someone or something quickly and with force, usually causing injury or damage
The car went out of control and hit a wall.
She hit her head on the pavement when she fell.
He hit a boy on the main road but fortunately the boy was okay.
to affect something badly
The economy has been hit by high unemployment.
Penalties for parking in the wrong place can really hit you in the pocket.
to reach a place, position, or state
Our profits have already hit $1 million.
Having already hit the 50% boundary in 1991, we still see that the teachers' salaries experienced a significant rise.
If an idea or thought hits you, you suddenly think of it.
The idea for the book hit me in the middle of the night.
I climbed out of the shower, staggered into my room and then it hit me! "My diary! For crying out loud, that's it!"
to become very angry and start shouting
If I'm late again he'll hit the roof.
Be careful, if you make too much noise he'll hit the roof.
a thing or person that is very popular or successful
The Beatles had a string of number-one hits in the 1960s.
Your cake was a real hit at the party - everyone loved it.
They've just released a CD of their greatest hits.
The group RADIANT played their big hits from the 1980s for an hour.
a request to see a document on the Internet that is then counted to calculate the number of people looking at the page
There have been over 10,000 hits on the site since Wednesday.
to get free rides in someone's vehicle, by standing next to the road and waiting for someone to pick you up
We hitchhiked from Paris to Milan.
We hitchhiked to the nearest city.
using or involved with the most recent and advanced electronic machines, computers, etc.
This database system is an affordable, hi-tech solution.
With the development of science and technology, many new inventions have entered our life, especially some hi-tech products.
an activity that you enjoy and do regularly when you are not working
Ben's hobby is restoring old motorcycles.
My hobby is playing the guitar.
a team game played on grass where you hit a small ball with a long, curved stick
I play hockey every Saturday.
We played hockey and football.
to have something in your hand or arms
He was holding a glass of wine.
She held the baby in her arms.
They were holding hands and kissing.
Can you hold the bag while I open the door?
I like to hold the cat tightly because her fur is so soft and lovely.
to keep something in a particular position
Can you hold the door open, please?
Hold your hand up if you know the answer.
They held a gun to his head.
Suddenly, the girl found herself in front of the man, who was holding a gun against her forehead.
to organize an event
to hold talks/an election
A music festival is held there in July.
Every evening the concerts are held in the open air, so you can have lots of fun.
to contain or be able to contain something
This jug holds exactly one pint.
One bag won't hold all of the shopping - we'd better take two.
Modern computers can hold huge amounts of information.
Big companies which hold a huge amount of information would not be able to work without a computer.
to keep someone in a place so that they cannot leave
The terrorists held him hostage for 18 months.
I was held prisoner in a tiny attic room.
All around the world animals are held as prisoners in zoos.
to keep air in your lungs and not let it out
How long can you hold your breath under water?
My heart was beating fast. I was holding my breath.
to have a particular position in a competition
to hold the world record
The team held the lead until the 89th minute.
Nowadays she is an excellent sportswoman, she holds the world record.
to have a particular job, position, or qualification
She held the post of treasurer.
In fact 90% males hold the skilled vocational diploma whereas only 10% females hold the same degree.
to believe something
They held the view that physical punishment was good for children.
Nowadays, some people hold the opinion that children who do not have good living conditions are better prepared to deal with the problems which they will encounter later on.
to have a conversation
I can just about hold a conversation in Italian.
I know the grammar and many different expressions, and I can hold a conversation with other people.
to keep someone interested in something
The film held my attention from beginning to end.
The recent protest about our canteen held my attention.
to wait for something to happen, often feeling anxious
While the leaders negotiated, the world held its breath.
They, the critics, the fans and friends and his wife, held their breath and crossed their fingers, hoping to once again hear his enchanting voice.
to be as successful as other people or things
Alison could always hold her own in political debates.
An average IT company in the UK is only 30% female so it is vital to be comfortable in the company of so many men, and to be able to hold your own against them in meetings and discussions.
If you say that an argument doesn't hold water, you mean that it can't possibly be true.
I'm sorry, but what you are suggesting just doesn't hold water!
It remains to us to prove that the opinions of some scientists are far-fetched and don't hold water.
when you hold something or someone, or the way you do this
Keep a tight hold on your tickets.
When I got up on my feet again, I reached out my arm to get a hold on something, but there wasn't anything to hold on to.
to start holding something or someone
He took hold of one end of the carpet and tugged.
I just managed to grab hold of Lucy before she fell in the pool.
I'm scared!" said Nora trembling, as she took hold of my arm.
to obtain something, or to manage to speak to someone
I got hold of a copy at the local library.
I rang three times, but couldn't get hold of her.
I had also forgotten to remind my friends and teachers to bring their own knife and fork to our lunch, but fortunately one of my friends managed to get hold of some spare knives and forks.
If a plan or activity is on hold, it will not be done until a later time.
The project is on hold until we get more money.
What's more, it might, intentionally or not, raise awareness on issues that might have been put on hold by authorities, such as the legalization of soft drugs.
waiting to speak to someone on the telephone
His secretary put me on hold.
The day after, I called your office and after being put on hold, the person answering the phone was unwilling to come up with a proper reply.
power or control over something or someone
Their company has a strong hold on the computer market.
They send the money directly to his father and now have a hold on Chen.
a hollow space in something, or an opening in a surface
a bullet hole
There's a hole in the roof.
We dug a hole to plant the tree.
I like wearing jeans with holes in them, they look cool.
a time when you do not have to go to work or school
a public holiday
I'll be on holiday from Monday for two weeks.
My aunt looks after us during the school holidays.
Yes, I would like to go with you, because it is our school holiday.
a long visit to a place away from where you live, for pleasure
Let's book a skiing/walking holiday.
Are you going on holiday this year?
We are going to Greece this summer for a holiday.
having a hole or empty space inside
a hollow shell/tube
He had taken the dark red leather-bound book to his hideout in the forest, an old oak tree with a hollow trunk, where he used to play alone.
without meaning or real feeling
a hollow victory
a hollow laugh
These celebrities tend to encourage a lifestyle that, at first, may be extremely appealing, specially to children and teenagers, but it is nothing more than pure hollow hedonism.
If something someone says rings hollow, it does not sound true or sincere.
He said he was pleased, but his words rang hollow.
Everything rang hollow to her, so she decided to follow him in order to understand what had happened and her fiancé became so friendly and understanding.
relating to a religion or a god
the holy city of Jerusalem
I'd like to go inside and see for myself but only the holy priests are allowed to be in there and only on special occasions.
the place where you live or feel you belong
I tried to ring him, but he wasn't at home.
We sold our home in London and moved to Scotland.
He left home when he was eighteen.
I was actually born in New Zealand, but I've lived in England for so long that it feels like home now.
That's why I love my home.
to feel happy and confident in a place or situation
After a month she felt at home in her new job.
I explained: "I was in Manchester for just 10 months and during that time the people from there made me feel at home so I feel proud to have the accent."
the place where you usually find something or someone, or where they come from
France, the home of good food
Every golfer - and those watching golf - know, that the home of golf is St. Andrews in Scotland.
to behave in a relaxed way in a place, as if it was your own home
Take off your coat and make yourself at home.
Please relax and make yourself at home and help yourself.
a place where people who need special care live
a children's home
My grandmother lives in a home now.
However, I am also experienced with elderly people because I worked in an old people's home for about 3 months in the summer 1997.
a family in which the parents do not now live together
Many of these children come from broken homes.
The development of the modern society has brought with it a growing number of broken homes, divorces and economic problems which have directly affected the parent-child relationship.
to the place where you live
He didn't come home until midnight.
I went home to visit my parents.
I must go home at midnight because I have to travel tomorrow.
at or in the place someone lives
Will you be home tomorrow evening?
I'll not be home this afternoon.
without a place to live
10,000 people were made homeless by the floods.
As a result, there are a lot of homeless people in our local community.
people who are homeless
They're opening a new shelter for the homeless.
The money spent on the royal family could be used for something else like building houses for the homeless.
the state of being homeless
The government is trying to tackle homelessness.
Unemployment is a major problem today and it leads more and more people onto the path of poverty and homelessness.
work which teachers give students to do at home
Have you done your homework yet?
history/maths/science homework
I like doing my homework.
sincere and telling the truth
If you want my honest answer/opinion, I think your hair looks awful.
I tell everything to my mother in order to be honest.
not likely to lie, cheat, or steal
an honest man
She had an honest face.
I know it is an illusion, but I want to think that in the world there are some honest people.
used to express your real opinion
To be honest, I didn't really enjoy the party.
To be honest with you, I don't think it will be possible.
To be honest, I do hate shopping for clothes.
used to emphasize that you are telling the truth
Thanks, but I honestly couldn't eat another piece of cake.
Honestly, I did not know what to do, I wanted to cry.
in an honest way
They have always dealt honestly and fairly with their customers.
If we want to answer this question honestly and sincerely, we should think about the advantages and disadvantages that keeping animals in zoos results in.
the quality of being honest
I appreciate your honesty.
He's an extraordinary person and the TV viewers will love him because of his good sense of humour and his honesty.
used when you are saying what you really think or feel about something
In all honesty, I'd rather not go.
It is easy to say that government funding should be raised to make classes smaller and materials more relevant, but in all honesty, Danish schools are working very well indeed.
a sweet, sticky food that is made by bees
We had a mug of tea and toast spread with honey.
For breakfast they eat bread with butter, jam or honey.
a holiday taken by two people who have just got married
We went to Paris on our honeymoon.
Where did you spend your honeymoon?
when people respect you because you have done what you believe is honest and right, or the quality of doing this
a man of honour
We fought for the honour of our country.
Your health is worth much more than your honour.
in order to celebrate or show great respect for someone or something
a banquet in honour of the president
Finally we went to Corinth, where there are a lot of ancient sanctuaries which were built in honour of their gods.
something which makes you feel proud and pleased
It's an honour to be team captain.
I had the great honour of meeting the King.
It would be a pleasure and an honour for me.
proud and pleased because you have been given respect or asked to do something special
I am honoured to accept your invitation.
We would be honoured if you would join us for the day.
We would be honoured if you could present the prizes at this event.
part of a piece of clothing which can be pulled up to cover the top and back of the head
The coat has a hood.
He was wearing a black hood.
a curved piece of metal or plastic used for hanging something on, or a similar object used for catching fish
a coat/picture hook
a boat hook
a fish hook
A few moments later she took out a rope, which had a hook on one end.
to like or start to like doing something very much and want to do it all the time
He's completely hooked on computer games.
It is such a great change to listen to well-known singers for those who are hooked on rock music.
to go somewhere quickly or get into or out of a vehicle quickly
to hop on a plane/train
The next thing that happens is that everyone hops in their cars and drives to the restaurant where they have dinner.
to jump on one foot or to move about in this way
He hopped across the room.
He was not to be able to stand still and seemed to be hopping and leaping with his violin while playing.
If a small animal, bird, or insect hops, it moves by jumping on all of its feet at the same time.
Rabbits were hopping across the field.
I advise a quite different restaurant, in a more peaceful area; it is a pavilion facing Monstsouris garden, where you can see birds hopping and flying through the trees, and swans on the lake.
to want something to happen or be true
I hope (that) the bus won't be late.
We had hoped for better weather than this.
"Do you think it's going to rain?" "I hope not!"
"Is he coming?" "I hope so."
I hope you can come next time.
to intend to do something
Dad hopes to retire next year.
With this new class I hope to make progress.
a positive feeling about the future, or something that you want to happen or be true
a message full of hope
What are your hopes for the future?
Don't give up hope - I'm sure he'll be fine.
Young people are growing up in our cities without any hope of getting a job.
Ten minutes later I started to tell them how brave they were and how we fought when there was no hope.
because you want something good to happen
She went to Paris in the hope of improving her French.
They wrote to the Prime Minister in the hope that he would help.
Not only would I want to travel back to understand Hitler's incredible success, but also in the hope of thwarting his plans.
the best/last/only person or thing that can help you and make you succeed
Doctors say his only hope is a transplant.
My spirits sank at the same time as the water, our last hope of survival, did.
feeling positive about a future event or situation
He was hopeful about the outcome of the meeting.
They were hopeful of a successful agreement.
I'm hopeful (that) we can reach a compromise.
I know that it is quite impossible to find it in a big town like mine, but I am still hopeful.
If something is hopeful, it gives you reason to believe that what you want to happen will happen.
There are hopeful signs that she will make a full recovery.
The hopeful atmosphere darkened somewhat.
used, often at the start of a sentence, to express what you would like to happen
Hopefully it won't rain.
Hopefully we'll be in Norwich by early evening.
Hopefully he likes me, too.
in a hopeful way
"Are there any tickets left?" she asked hopefully.
I'll be waiting hopefully for your letter.
without hope
a hopeless situation
They searched for survivors but it was hopeless.
She was depressed and felt totally hopeless about the future.
When my uncle heard about my new hobby, he bought me a chess-computer to train for my first real match. At the moment I'm trying to win against it but I think it is hopeless.
very bad at a particular activity
I'm hopeless at sports.
He's a hopeless cook.
extremely, or in a way that makes you lose hope
hopelessly lost
They met at university and fell hopelessly in love.
It's never easy to be young and hopelessly in love.
to increase the number of things that you know about, have experienced, or can do
Travelling certainly broadens your horizons.
Overall, I can say the conference was a success and definitely broadened my horizons.
likely to happen soon
Economic recovery is on the horizon.
Often this is justified as a result of society being collectively afraid that a shortage of fuel is on the horizon.
the line in the distance where the sky seems to touch the land or sea
We could see a large ship on the horizon.
The view from here is also very beautiful and I remember that when I looked out over the sea, I could see the boats dotted around between the bay and the horizon.
level and flat, or parallel to the ground or to the bottom of a page
a horizontal line/stripe
Years are projected along the horizontal axis.
a piece of equipment used to make a loud sound as a warning or signal
a car/fog horn
The taxi driver sounded/beeped his horn.
How happy I was, hearing the sound of a car horn.
one of the two hard, pointed growths on the heads of cows, goats, and some other animals
These cows have curved horns.
Far in the south of Chile, you will find the smallest deer of the world called "Pudù". It is only 25 cm. tall, doesn't have big horns and eats fruit.
a curved musical instrument that you blow into to make a sound
He blew his horn.
At last, when the first notes came out of the orchestra, a spotlight showed the enormous figure of Ludwig van Mill strolling in the forest, blowing his horn and grinning at the trees.
very unpleasant or bad
He's got a horrible cold.
What's that horrible smell?
That was a horrible thing to say!
I got a really nice T-shirt from Janeth, and a horrible pair of socks from Simon.
very shocked
When I told him all the money was gone, he was absolutely horrified.
When we arrived at the Riverside Lodge I was horrified to find out that there were no ramps in the building.
extremely shocking
She sustained horrifying injuries in the attack.
Evading his unknown captors he is faced with a horrifying proposition.
a film or story that entertains people by shocking or frightening them
I love reading horror stories.
I'll buy a DVD called "Scream", it's a horror movie - you know I love scary movies.
a strong feeling of shock or fear
She watched in horror as the car skidded across the road.
The thought of speaking in front of so many people fills me with horror.
I then realized to my absolute horror, that I had forgotten the present.
I approached the door but to my horror, it was locked.
a large animal with four legs, which people ride on or use for carrying things or pulling vehicles
to ride a horse
a horse and cart
I also like to be with horses.
A hospitable person or place is friendly, pleasant, and welcomes visitors.
We always find them very hospitable.
First of all, the families you will be staying with are exceptionally hospitable, always willing to show you round in the local area.
a place where ill or injured people go to be treated by doctors and nurses
I've got to go (in)to hospital to have an operation.
She spent a week in hospital last year.
She works in a hospital.
when people are friendly and welcoming to guests and visitors
The local people showed me great hospitality.
Our members were ever so pleased with the families and your kind hospitality.
someone who invites people to a meal or a party, or to stay in their home
We thanked our hosts for the lovely evening.
My host family looked after me very well during my month in London.
My experience of living with a host family was very good, so I suggest we should look for a nice place for both of us.
a large number of people or things
I've got a whole host of questions to ask you.
In this day and age, we can buy Nike clothes, Head & Shoulders shampoos and a host of other products in the UK as well as other places in the world.
someone who introduces the guests on a radio or television programme
a talk show host
For a lot of youngsters some television hosts are regarded as role models because they are famous and do not seem to have problems with anything at all.
If a place hosts an event, people there arrange it and it happens there.
The town hosts an annual jazz festival.
Dear Sir/Madam, I am writing on behalf of my town which has been short-listed to host an international conference next year.
someone who is kept as a prisoner and may be hurt or killed in order to force other people to do something
Three hostages died in the attack.
The most extraordinary bond, however, develops between two of the hostages, namely Mr. Hosokawa himself and the American opera singer Roxanne Coss.
to catch or keep someone as a prisoner
Two tourists were held hostage by terrorists.
At the party, however, things take an unexpected turn when all the visitors are taken hostage by a group of terrorists.
a place like a cheap hotel, where you can live when you are away from home or have no home
a youth hostel
a hostel for the homeless
We'll stay in a hostel because it's cheap and we'll use public transport.
unfriendly and not liking or agreeing with something
Some politicians were very hostile to the idea.
She is not hostile or aggressive.
unpleasant or not suitable for living or growing
a hostile climate
They live and work in very hostile conditions.
However, they do not realize that they have to survive in a hostile environment, living in unsafe and unhealthy slums.
unfriendly, angry behaviour that shows that you dislike someone
hostility towards outsiders
As Edmund's cruelty and hostility towards Charles intensified, and Charles' attempts to escape failed, his unhappiness increased, which led to his ultimate self-destruction.
having a high temperature
a hot sunny day
hot weather
a hot drink/meal
It's too hot in here, can we turn down the heating?
Bake the cake in a hot oven, about 220°C, for 30 minutes.
I like this place because in the summer it is very hot.
Hot food contains strong spices which cause a burning feeling in your mouth.
a hot curry
hot and spicy food
Here we have many restaurants to go to, so it's hard to have a favourite, but we sometimes go to the Delhi restaurant, which serves Indian food, because we like meals that are hot with various spices.
a subject which people discuss and have strong feelings about
The legalization of drugs is a hot topic.
Whether to compete or to cooperate has become a hot issue in today's society, both in public and private.
exciting or interesting
Hollywood's hottest new actress
That would mean that Bill Gates is the hottest celebrity on earth, but he is not.
a place where you pay to stay when you are away from home
a 4-star hotel
We stayed in/at a hotel on the seafront.
hotel guests
Cracow offers a lot of very nice hotels, restaurants and pubs.
a period of 60 minutes
The exam lasted an hour and a half.
The journey took about three hours.
There are 24 hours in a day.
How many hours' sleep do you need?
I'll be back in an hour's/two hours' time.
Trains leave every hour on the hour.
I study English for four hours per week.
a long time
I spent hours doing my homework.
They kept us waiting for hours and hours.
We spent hours talking, but at ten o'clock he took me home.
very late at night, until early morning, or almost all the time
Our neighbours are up till all hours every night, playing loud music.
This causes traffic jams at all hours of the day.
the hours between midnight and the time that the sun rises
I usually wake up in the early hours.
After the firework display, villagers start dancing again until the early hours.
done or happening every hour
There's an hourly bus service into town.
A nurse checked him at hourly intervals.
for each hour
an hourly rate/wage
I'll also call the shop and ask about the hourly rate and the working hours.
once every hour
Trains stop here hourly.
This train runs hourly and takes about 90 minutes to Kassel which is the second stop.
a building where people live, usually one family or group
a three-bedroomed house
to buy/rent a house
We went to my aunt's house for dinner.
Come to my house for dinner tomorrow.
the people watching a performance or the area where they sit
The actors played to a full house.
to provide space for something
The museum houses a huge collection of paintings.
Her study houses a really huge collection of books on history, architecture, and geography of the places we have been to.
to give a person or animal a place to live
This development will house over 100 families.
In short, if more emphasis is put on social skills and benefits become easier to obtain, then homelessness could be reduced - except for the persons who cannot be housed because of their deviant behaviour.
a family or group of people who live together in a house
By the 1960s, most households had a TV.
household chores
household expenses
In Japan, for example, the vast majority of households have at least one car nowadays.
a woman whose work is inside the home, doing the cleaning, cooking, etc., and who usually does not have any other job
My grandmother was the perfect housewife.
I have also enjoyed "Desperate housewives", "the O.C" and of course "the Oprah show" recently.
the work of keeping a house clean and tidy
I hate doing housework.
I ran out of vegetables and cans, and as I was not at home the housework wasn't done, and the children almost destroyed my furniture.
buildings for people to live in
a shortage of local housing
The problems with housing can be improved by building more council houses, which can be bought at lower prices, or giving subsidies to first time buyers.
used to ask someone if they are well and happy
"Hi, Lucy, how are you?" "Fine, thanks, how are you?"
Dear Ramesh, How are you?
used to ask or talk about quantity, size, or age
Do you know how many people are coming?
How much was that dress?
How big is the house?
How old are they?
How much does it cost?
used to make a suggestion
How about a drink?
How about going to the cinema?
How about going on Monday evening?
used to ask or talk about the way something happens or is done
How do we get to the town from here?
How did you hear about the concert?
How does this machine work?
Roz doesn't know how to ride a bicycle.
How can/could he be so stupid?
I don't know how anyone could think that way.
How did you know I liked skateboards?
used to ask about someone's health
How is your mother?
How are you feeling this morning?
How are you feeling? I hope you are feeling better.
a formal greeting for someone that you have not met before
"I'm Jack Stewart." "How do you do? I'm Angela Black."
used to ask or talk about what an experience or event was like
How was your flight?
How did you find the lecture?
How did you like the concert?
How was your birthday?
used for emphasis
I can't tell you how pleased I am that you came.
How nice to see you!
I was amazed at how quickly she finished.
It's quite amazing how quickly she could change my reason to learn English.
used to ask for someone's opinion on a particular subject
So the town was nice - how about the food?
I don't like shopping with my mum because she wants me to wear weird clothes. How about you?
used to ask why or how something has happened
How come you didn't go to the party?
Off the record: How come that your reporter can print such lies when knowing they are perhaps hurting certain people in this important matter?
used to express anger about something someone has done
How dare you talk to me like that!
How dare you call that high standards?!
used to talk about how true something is
How far do politicians represent the views of ordinary people?
How far and to what extent would the characteristics we are born with influence our future development in life?
said to mean that something is strange/stupid, etc.
I found my keys in the fridge - how stupid is that?
The best thing is that my current rent is only 2/3 of the old flat and the landlord is paying the facility bills and council tax for me. How good is that?
used when you are about to say something which is surprising compared with what you have just said
This is one possible solution to the problem. However, there are others.
There may, however, be other reasons that we don't know about.
I will be very happy to go fishing and swimming in the lake like the last time. However, if you don't want to do it, it's not a problem for me.
used to say that it does not make any difference how cold/difficult/slowly, etc.
We're not going to get there in time, however fast we drive.
However hungry I am, I never seem to be able to finish off a whole pizza.
If Emma likes something she'll buy it however much it costs.
I'll see you after the show and give you £20 for the tickets, or however much they cost.
We think that we are careful and that we can avoid traffic accidents, but however careful we may be, some other people might be careless and hit us.
in whatever way
However you look at it, it's still a mess.
You can do it however you like, it really doesn't matter.
However you do it, the important part is that you relax.
to put your arms around someone and hold them tightly, usually because you love or like them
They hugged each other when they met at the station.
Emily hugged her teddy bear tightly to her chest.
She sat on the floor hugging her knees.
We walked in the street together and spoke to each other for more than for four hours and at the end we hugged and kissed.
when you put your arms around someone and hold them tightly
Come here and give me a big hug.
We always exchange hugs and kisses when we meet.
The singer of the band ,"Green Day" was coming towards me. He took my hand and then gave me a hug.
extremely large
They live in a huge house.
The costs involved in building a spacecraft are huge.
A huge number of people attended.
I live in a huge old house in the suburbs with my family.
to sing without opening your mouth
She walked around the house, humming a song.
Secretly, when nobody can hear them, they hum a little tune or whistle a melody, their faces beam, and their hearts grow warm.
relating to people or their characteristics
the human body
human behaviour
The fault was due to human error.
As for me, the last good programme I saw was a scientific episode about the abilities of the human brain.
to not be perfect
Of course Tom makes mistakes - he's only human.
In theory, it is easy to say "We should learn from the mistakes of the past" but is it easy to do so in practice? Many people would say "No" to this question, as we are only human.
a man, woman or child
The greatest damage being done to our planet today is that being done by humans.
The programmes I have enjoyed recently were about whales, sharks and humans.
connected with improving people's lives and reducing suffering
The UN is sending humanitarian aid to the refugees.
Indeed, the conflicts in the Balkans are so deeply rooted and complex that they can be likened to a political quagmire: once you go in, a withdrawal of humanitarian aid and military forces becomes difficult to undertake.
all people
The massacre was a crime against humanity.
All humanity enjoys the numerous advances in modern technology and in our day, life has become more interesting and easier.
kindness and sympathy towards others
Mother Teresa was famous for her compassion and humanity.
When he sees Faber's intelligence and humanity, he is once more convinced of the fact that books are a good thing and that they should be preserved rather than destroyed and he decides to fight for this.
the condition of being human
War robs these people of their humanity.
At last they will be back home, but they are sure that nobody could give them again that humanity that the war took away.
the basic rights that every person should have, such as justice and freedom to say what you think
international laws protecting human rights
My main interest is the way of life during the so-called French Period; that period is very important for the foundation of human rights and the way parliament ought to work.
not proud or not believing that you are important
He's very humble about his success.
I am aware that this may be perceived by some people as a naive point of view, as such humble values are becoming less and less popular in today's materialistic world.
poor or of a low social rank
She rose from humble beginnings to become Prime Minister.
As a result of it, he never forgot his humble origins in a small region of Spain.
used to give your opinion about something, often when you are sure you are right
In my humble opinion, that's the wrong decision.
In my humble opinion, there's no such thing as a uniform celebrity, good, bad or otherwise.
Humid air or weather is hot and slightly wet.
It's very humid today.
The north of Iran is wet but the south of Iran is humid and hot.
made to feel stupid or ashamed
She felt completely humiliated.
Never again in my life have I felt so miserable and humiliated.
making you feel stupid or ashamed
a humiliating defeat
How humiliating it had been to have her parental abilities questioned.
the quality of not being proud or not thinking that you are better than other people
Try to show a little humility.
This growing shopping mania is also said to create an increasingly materialistic society; hence, our children grow up forgetting the basic values of life - simplicity, integrity, humility and plain hard work.
funny, or making you laugh
a humorous book
To be more specific, the articles will include events taken from our college life, written in a humorous, chatty way.
the ability to understand funny things and to be funny yourself
Carol has a wicked sense of humour.
Most of them have an incredible sense of humour so we laugh a lot when we go there.
the quality of being funny
There's a lot of humour in her work.
The film is really exciting with a bit of humour.
the way you are feeling, or your mood
good humour
My mother was the tenderest and the most amiable mother one could have and my father was the man I mostly "loved", thanks to his good humour and his gentle manner.
the number 100
We've driven a/one hundred miles in the last two hours.
"How many children are there in the school?" "About three hundred."
That dress costs hundreds of pounds.
It cost nine hundred yuan at least.
a lot
Hundreds of people wrote in to complain.
When she came back to reality she could see hundreds of people applauding..
the feeling you have when you need to eat
I can't believe that that enormous meal wasn't enough to satisfy your hunger.
By about 9 o'clock she started to feel faint from/with hunger.
It was what I expected, a baby crying from hunger.
when you do not have enough food
All over the world, people die of hunger every day.
Many changes are coming and many problems are coming too, because overpopulation, contamination, pollution, hunger, and poverty besides come with this technological revolution and that is something that the human being will have to solve soon.
a strong wish for something
a hunger for success/knowledge
The most important factor when learning English is the hunger for knowledge, the hunger for the unknown.
wanting or needing food
By four o'clock I felt/was really hungry.
The boys are always hungry when they get home from school.
She often goes hungry herself so that her children can have enough to eat.
I'm very happy about this dinner, because after work I'm so hungry.
to have a strong wish for something
The journalists were hungry for more details of the accident.
I am always fascinated with people who are well-educated and do not stop being hungry for information.
to chase and kill wild animals
Some animals hunt at night.
Cats like to hunt mice and birds.
As I was saying, you can also go to jungle hotels - comfortable hotels in the middle of the forest, just crossing the Amazon River, where you can keep in touch with nature, feed monkeys and even "hunt" alligators (all sizes, believe me!).
to search for something or someone
I've hunted all over the place, but I can't find that book.
They are still hunting for the missing child.
I've hunted for my gloves.
Police are hunting the terrorists who planted the bomb.
You don't have to hunt for a place to park your car and to worry what will happen when you're out of gas.
a search for something or someone
After a long hunt we finally found a house we liked.
The hunt for the injured climber continued throughout the night.
What is more, it helps to face problems which could occur during the hunt for a "lifetime" job.
the sport of chasing and killing animals
deer hunting
She's very much against hunting of any sort.
And of course hunting won't be allowed.
to move or do things more quickly than normal, or to make someone do this
Hurry or you'll be late.
She hurried to answer the telephone.
I hate to hurry you, but I have to leave in a few minutes.
After spending her lunch hour shopping, she hurried back to work.
I will start painting at 3.45 pm but you don't have to hurry.
the need to move or do things more quickly than normal
We left in such a hurry that we forgot our tickets.
"Can you wait a few minutes?" "Yes, I'm not in any hurry/I'm in no hurry."
Are you in a hurry to leave?
What's (all) the hurry (for)/Why (all) the hurry - we've got plenty of time.
"I'll let you have this back next week." "That's all right, there's no (great) hurry/there isn't any (great) hurry ."
I was in a hurry to get to class so I wore different coloured socks.
to cause pain
Simon hurt his knee playing football.
Emma hurt herself when she fell off her horse.
I hurt myself one week ago so I can't help you but pupils can put out chairs and the other furniture.
If a part of your body hurts, it feels painful.
My eyes really hurt.
It hurts to walk on it.
I'm going to see the dentist, because my tooth is hurting and I really need to go.
to cause emotional pain to someone
She criticized my writing quite severely and that hurt.
He was badly hurt by the end of his marriage.
I didn't mean to hurt your feelings.
My heart was hurt and nobody will be able to repair the damage.
injured or in pain
Let me help you up. Are you hurt?
Put that knife away before someone gets hurt.
Several people were seriously/badly hurt in the explosion.
There was an accident on the motorway but fortunately nobody was seriously hurt.
upset or unhappy
I feel very hurt by what you said.
"That was very unkind," he said in a hurt voice.
I know you got very hurt when you and Brian broke up.
the man a woman is married to
I've never met Fiona's husband.
On Sunday afternoons, she goes with her husband and her son to the swimming pool.
a small, simple building, often made of wood
a mountain hut
a row of beach huts
Finally, we reached a hut near a river, where we stayed until the following day, when we returned home by bus.
the process of keeping things clean, especially to prevent disease
health and hygiene regulations
dental/personal hygiene
The ones that need medical services at home have hardly got anyone, and no one has helped them with personal hygiene.
very clean, so that bacteria cannot spread
hygienic conditions
That was not only extremely uncomfortable, but also inconvenient and not very hygienic.
a mark (-) used to join two words together, or to show that a word has been divided and continues on the next line
There should be a hyphen in 'short-sighted'.
when someone pretends to believe something that they do not really believe or that is the opposite of what they do or say at another time
I can't stand their hypocrisy - they say they care about the poor but then they go home and drink champagne.
I would recommend Hartley's novel to people who would like to see the world once more from the point of view of a child: a world too strange, too full of hypocrisy and egotism to be understood by a boy.
Hypocritical people pretend to believe things that they do not really believe or that are the opposite of what they do or say at another time.
Having told Tom that he should not accept any money from her, it would be rather hypocritical if I did.
One unique thought haunted her: go away from the environment she was living in and which she couldn't stand: the four-hour teas, the incessant discussions about Mrs X who was pregnant and Mr X who had lost his fortune in a game, the hypocritical smiles, the narrow-minded people blinded by money... all those details which enraged Lucy.
a suggested explanation for something which has not yet been proved to be true
They are investigating the hypothesis that obesity may be caused by a virus.
The first impression that comes to my mind is that when you live longer, you gain more experience and wisdom, which you can convey to your children, therefore the society becomes more experienced, responsible etc. (unfortunately, real life does not back up this hypothesis).
If someone is hysterical, they cannot control their feelings or behaviour because they are extremely frightened, angry, excited, etc.
Calm down, you're becoming/getting hysterical.
The police were accused of hysterical over-reaction.
hysterical laughter
The actor playing the part of Amadeus is Tom Hulce, whose hysterical laughter always seems to put him in embarrassing situations.
used when the person speaking or writing is the subject of the verb
I love you.
Did I tell you about my holiday?
I'm not late, am I?
I'd like a coffee.
I don't understand much English.
water that has frozen and become solid
Gerry slipped on the ice and broke his arm.
The pond was covered in ice all winter.
Would you like ice in your juice?
It's fun when you slide on the ice.
to make people feel more relaxed in a social situation
I told everyone a joke, which helped to break the ice.
And, of course, don't forget that a warm smile is one of the best ways to break the ice.
a very large piece of ice that floats in the sea
The ship hit an iceberg.
Another animal you cannot miss is the Humboldt penguin - you can see thousands of them over an iceberg.
to be a small part of a very big problem
We've corrected a few errors, but they're just the tip of the iceberg.
I'm not used to such behaviour but that was the tip of the iceberg.
a sweet food made from frozen milk or cream, sugar and a flavour
chocolate/vanilla ice cream
I like chocolate and ice cream with fruit.
a game played on ice in which two teams try to hit a small hard object into a goal using long curved sticks
He loves ice hockey.
I visited Kassel with some friends, to watch an ice hockey game.
the activity or sport of moving across ice using ice skates
We're going ice skating.
Last year, I went ice skating with some friends and it was not as easy as I thought it would be, but I liked it anyway.
in an unfriendly way or without showing any emotion
'I won't ask you again,' she said icily.
No sooner had she picked the phone up than she heard Mr Jones' voice icily asking her to go to his office.
a small picture on a computer screen that you choose in order to make the computer do something
Click on the print icon.
He clicked on the icon on the screen which started the operation.
a person or thing that is famous because it represents a particular idea or way of life
a fashion icon
I think he is still very famous because he is an icon and kickboxing is still very popular because of him.
covered in ice
icy roads
She had fallen off it on an icy street and had got injured.
extremely cold
an icy wind
Fast as the wind, she was falling down and down, until her long thin finger touched the icy cold water.
without showing any emotion
an icy stare
FOGG is the typical rich English man: cold with an icy heart, uncommunicative.
an official document that shows or proves who you are
Make sure you carry some ID with you.
Please could you check if you have it because it contains my ID.
an identity card
You will need a passport or an ID card.
Last night I left my ID card in your house.
a suggestion or plan
a bad/brilliant/great/stupid idea
"Let's go swimming." "That's a good idea!"
If you have any ideas for what I could buy Jack, let me know.
It was Kate's idea to hire a car.
I've had an idea - why don't we go to the coast?
Nick, it's a wonderful idea!
to not know
"Where's Serge?" "I've no idea."
I have no idea about how his children are.
an opinion or belief
We have very different ideas about the environment.
Leach puts forward the idea that it is impossible to spoil a child.
I'm not married - where did you get that idea?
You can talk beside the fireplace, or have a beer with your friends and share your ideas about Tolkien's works.
an understanding, thought or picture in your mind
Do you have any idea of what he looks like?
Can you give me an idea of the cost?
I don't like the idea of living so far away from my family.
I've got a pretty good idea why they left early.
For children it's great to get an idea of how these "big" animals eat, drink and live.
the aim or purpose of something
The idea is to give local people a chance to voice their opinions.
This was the idea behind this new product: although made in New Zealand, the new product would have its name, packaging, marketing and advertising support in keeping with the Russian traditions.
the principle of something
We all admire the idea of dignity.
Many of us sit there with watery eyes, as we're moved by the idea of unification, equality and brotherhood among the different nations of the world.
used to emphasize that you do not know something
I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.
Some twenty years ago, when I left my parents' home to go and live on my own, I was given four mugs. By whom? I haven't the faintest idea.
perfect, or the best possible
the ideal employer
She's the ideal person for the job.
The television also comes in a compact 36 cm screen size, ideal for bedroom or kitchen use.
It's the ideal opportunity to meet people.
In an ideal world no one would go hungry.
In fact I didn't want to ask my parents for money, and going on holiday with you would be an ideal solution.
believing that it is possible to achieve very good things, even when others do not think this is likely
When I was young and idealistic, I believed it was possible to change the world.
Carolina has conquered the world, not only through her impressive results but through her appearance in front of the cameras, her idealistic ideas and her constantly happy mood.
in a perfect way
She seemed ideally suited for the job.
I believe I am ideally suited for this job.
used to talk about how something would be in a perfect situation
Ideally, I'd like to work at home.
Ideally, through this camp, I would like to teach Japanese songs and dance to them and I would also like to learn about their culture.
exactly the same
I've got three identical blue suits.
The two rooms were virtually identical.
The tests are identical to those carried out last year.
And suddenly you notice the identical but cheaper one in the next shop.
an official document that shows or proves who you are
We were asked to show some identification before the security guards would let us in.
It's important to send my wallet back as I can't withdraw money from my account without any proof of identification.
when you recognize and can name someone or something
Identification of the victims of the plane crash still is not complete.
In the home of the future, we might even be using voice identification and fingerprints instead of keys.
to recognize someone or something and say or prove who or what they are
Even the smallest baby can identify its mother by her voice.
The gunman in Wednesday's attack has been identified as Lee Giggs, an unemployed truck driver.
After a few minutes I heard a noise which I couldn't identify.
to find a particular thing or all the things of a particular group
You need to identify your priorities.
The research will be used to identify training needs.
The purpose of this report is to identify which lessons or other activities should be filmed.
who someone is
to hide/protect your identity
to prove/reveal your identity
The witness was given a new identity for her protection.
The newspaper photo apparently showed him in Rome but it was a case of mistaken identity.
But this idea fell through when the real Martine revealed her identity.
the things that make one person or group of people different from others
cultural/national identity
I think my job gives me a sense of identity.
There were many people and many speakers who talked about all sorts of subjects such as politics, religion, gender identity, and art.
a card that shows your name, photograph and information to prove who you are
His identity card was stolen.
I lost my identity card, credit card and passport and I couldn't go to Rome.
a group of words used together with a meaning that you cannot guess from the meanings of the separate words
To "have bitten off more than you can chew" is an idiom that means you have tried to do something which is too difficult for you.
Greek has many verbs, adjectives and idioms and the grammar can be very complicated.
a stupid person or someone who is behaving in a stupid way
Some idiot left the tap running in the bathroom and there's water everywhere.
You stupid idiot - that's a month's work you've lost!
Everybody was treating me like a big idiot.
lazy and not willing to work
He knows what has to be done, he's just bone idle.
This last point is important because, though happy when a boy, I remember I was sometimes idle and I guess I could have done much more.
not serious or having no real purpose
idle gossip
This is no idle threat.
However, as soon as it became a plan of action rather than an idle thought, it began to grow on her.
someone that you admire and respect very much
apop/sporting idol
As they are children's heroes, we can be pretty sure children will be demanding the same things their idols wear.
a picture or object that people pray to as part of their religion
They worshipped huge stone idols.
Buddha idols stand in rows protected by glass cases.
used to say that something will happen only after something else happens or is true
We'll have the party in the garden if the weather's good.
If anyone rings for me, please tell them I'll be back in the office at 4 o'clock.
We'll deal with that problem if and when it arises.
If you want me to, I'll bring you some of my CDs.
used to say what the situation will be if something does not happen
I hope to see you there but, if not, I'll call you.
I'm going to paint my bedroom with the pink paint. Remember to put on your old clothes. If not, your clothes will become pinky and you can't use them anymore.
used when you offer someone something
If you like, I could drive you there.
If you like, we can go to a night club.
used to mean always or every time
If water is heated to 100°C it turns to steam.
If I don't get enough sleep I get a headache.
If there is a world cup - e.g. football - then I spend more time watching television.
used to talk about something that might happen
If I won the lottery, I'd buy a boat.
What would you do if he moved away?
It would be great if you came to the city.
whether
I wonder if he'll get the job?
Mrs Kramer rang half an hour ago to ask if her cake was ready.
I don't care if he likes it or not - I'm coming!
But let's see if a friend can lend me his notebook, as that way I will catch up easily.
used when you give someone advice
If I were you, I'd probably go.
I think I'd take the money if I were you.
But you enjoy clubbing and discos, so, if I were you, I would choose the city.
used when you want to say how doing something simple would make it possible to avoid something unpleasant
If only she'd listen to what he's saying, I'm sure they could work it out.
If only I had been more careful.
used to talk about what would/might/could, etc. have happened
If we'd had the money, we'd have bought a new car.
If you'd mentioned this earlier, it might not have been necessary to call the doctor.
if this is the case
It might rain this afternoon. If so, we'll have to have the party indoors.
Let me know if you can come, and if so, whether you prefer the 15th or 22nd of February.
used to describe how a situation seems to be
It looks as if it might rain.
It was as if we had been friends for years.
The sun was up in the sky, there were no clouds and it looked as if it was going to be a wonderful day.
when someone does not have enough knowledge, understanding, or information about something
There is widespread ignorance about how disease spreads.
I was shocked by her total ignorance of world history.
However, living in ignorance about the history and the origins of things that one is surrounded with is like showing disrespect to those who helped to create the modern world as it is known today.
not having enough knowledge, understanding, or information about something
He was a newcomer to Formula One and ignorant of many of the circuits.
It is often claimed by scientists that people's modern lifestyle has resulted in this plight our world is facing and that unfortunately people are either ignorant of it or indifferent.
to pay no attention to something or someone
I smiled at her but she just ignored me.
She can be really irritating but I try to ignore her.
How can the government ignore the wishes of the majority?
Paul ignored it at first and continued his shopping but the dog kept following him.
not feeling well, or suffering from a disease
I felt ill so I went home.
He's been ill with meningitis.
Sophia fell ill/was taken ill while on holiday.
He is critically ill in hospital.
It is important because my sister Sarah is ill and she lives in Manchester.
bad
It was an ill-tempered exchange.
He suffered no ill effects from his fall.
Working long hours can have ill effects on the health.
not allowed by law
Prostitution is illegal in some countries.
It is illegal to drive a car that is not taxed and insured.
Cocaine, LSD and heroin are all illegal drugs/substances.
Although he has a very charming personality, he uses it to take part in illegal activities and he has been in trouble with the law several times.
in a way that is not allowed by law
They entered the country illegally.
an illegally parked car
He was afraid and bought a gun illegally.
not able to read or write
Most of the children are illiterate.
It is well known that many European charity workers travel to developing countries in order to educate illiterate children or to rebuild ruined villages.
a disease of the body or mind
He died at home after a long illness.
It's because my aunt has a terrible illness and I have to go and see her.
when you are ill
She had five days off work due to illness.
There was a little paper on the door which informed us that the restaurant was closed due to illness.
an idea or belief that is not true
He had no illusions about his talents as a singer.
We are not under any illusion - we know the work is dangerous.
Just one detail turning out to be not as expected or not perfect is often enough to shatter their illusions and cause arguing.
something that is not really what it seems to be
There is a large mirror at one end to create the illusion of more space.
This architectural solution creates an illusion of space, one may feel as inside a vast hall.
to draw pictures for a book, magazine, etc. or to put pictures, photographs, etc. in a book, magazine, etc.
The book is beautifully illustrated by the author.
Last year I illustrated two children's books by H.J. Simons.
to give information through diagrams, lists of numbers, etc.
This process is illustrated in the diagram below.
The table illustrates the employment status of graduates from UK universities in 2001.
to give more information or examples to explain or prove something
The lecturer illustrated his point with a diagram on the blackboard.
This latest conflict further illustrates the weakness of the UN.
The exhibition will illustrate how life evolved from water.
Some topics that illustrate cultural ways of thinking and that have been explored by this programme are abortion (it is illegal in Brazil), colour prejudice, sexual harassment, homosexuality.
a picture in a book, magazine, etc. or the process of illustrating something
a full-page illustration
colour/black and white illustrations
When you read about that period of time in history books and see pictures and illustrations, you can almost "feel" the atmosphere and sense the power the Monarchy possessed at the time.
an example that explains or proves something
This delay is a perfect illustration of why we need a new computer system.
A couple of examples are included, by way of illustration.
This quote, Milly's reaction when her father concedes to buying her a horse, is a good illustration of her general attitude towards religion and life.
the way that other people think someone or something is
The aim is to improve the public image of the police.
They are trying to promote a more positive image of the whole industry.
The company has made serious attempts to improve its image in recent years.
He's terribly image-conscious.
In conclusion, I do not think that there are many things to do for Turin, but what I said before could really improve the image of our wonderful town.
a picture, especially on film or television or in a mirror
television images of starving children
This is the image you see in the mirror.
Films also provide a clear idea of how people's lives were in a particular period by showing us the visual images of that time.
a picture in your mind or an idea of how someone or something is
I have an image in my mind of the way I want the garden to look.
Whenever I hear this song, it conjures up images of Caribbean beaches.
It conjures up images of brightly lit and decorated malls, big stores, little stores proudly showing off their wares.
not real but imagined in your mind
The story takes place in an imaginary world.
Mickey Mouse ... describes stories that can happen to humans whereas Sponge Bob lives in an imaginary world underwater.
the part of your mind that creates ideas or pictures of things that are not real or that you have not seen
There's nothing out here - it's just your imagination.
For some reason the story captured/caught the imagination of the public.
There's a sex scene in the film which apparently leaves nothing to the imagination.
I thought it was my imagination, because it was very late and the concert had been so long.
the ability to create ideas or pictures in your mind
The job needs someone with creativity and imagination.
Endless imagination and the development of technology will lead us to future fashion.
to make someone very excited or interested in something
His paintings really fired my imagination.
The newspaper article on education that I read really fired my imagination and urged me to think about the points raised.
Something which is imaginative is new or clever and often unusual.
an imaginative use of colour
Her imaginative stories are very popular with children of all ages.
Someone who is imaginative is able to create new and interesting ideas or things.
a highly imaginative poet
She is a very imaginative girl and she always invents new games for our children, so that they have never felt bored in her presence.
to form an idea or picture of something in your mind
Imagine Robert Redford when he was young - that's what John looks like.
Imagine (that) you're eating an ice cream - try to feel how cold it is.
She imagined herself sitting in her favourite armchair back home.
Just imagine the sun, the sea and all that fun on the beach.
to have an idea of what something is like or might be like
Can you imagine how it feels to be blind?
I can't imagine wanting to go out if I don't really know anyone.
You can't imagine how tired I am.
to think that you hear or see something which does not really exist
"Did you hear a noise?" "No, you're imagining things."
I can't hear anything - you must be imagining it.
I turned back but I didn't see anyone, so I thought that I had imagined it.
to believe that something is probably the case
I imagine (that) he's under a lot of pressure at the moment.
I don't imagine (that) they have much money.
"Will they change it?" "I imagine so."
I imagine that it's a lot of money so my first suggestion would be to spend only part of it on a motorbike.
to copy the way someone or something looks, sounds, or behaves
She tried to imitate the way the models walked.
We try to imitate the British way of preparing or organising championships and races, and that's the reason for the British influence in Spanish motorsports.
a copy of something that is made to look like the real thing
It wasn't a genuine Gucci handbag, just a cheap imitation.
imitation leather/fur
The word spread out so fast that the vast majority of people ended up purchasing genuine Versace jeans or even cheap imitations just to catch up with the fashion.
not behaving in a way which is as wise and calm as people expect from someone your age
Some of the boys are quite immature for their age.
You might regard me as an immature, seventeen-year-old girl for I like decorating my diary.
happening or done without delay or very soon after something else
We must make an immediate response.
The directors have demanded his immediate resignation.
Dioxin is a poison that takes immediate effect.
I hope you will give this matter your immediate attention.
important now and needing attention
We have no immediate plans.
Our immediate concern is getting food and water to the refugees.
It can't be an immediate objective, of course, but we mustn't give up.
closest to something or someone
There are few facilities in the immediate area.
His immediate family have been informed.
In the first place, there are beautiful landscapes in the immediate vicinity of both hotels.
now or without waiting or thinking about something
We really ought to leave immediately.
The purpose of the meeting wasn't immediately obvious.
Can you send me it immediately?
next to something, or close to something in time
Milton Street is on the left, immediately after the bank.
They moved in immediately before Christmas.
We heard a loud crash from the room immediately above us.
You should go on up to the end of the street, as my flat is the last on the right-hand side, immediately before the crossroads.
extremely big
immense pressure/value
Health care costs the country an immense amount of money.
Jobs in the computer and telecommunications industry have gained immense respect in the past ten years.
extremely
immensely powerful/popular
People who were previously nothing more than peasants grew immensely rich, while the former aristocracy of land owners lost its dominating position.
someone who comes to live in a different country
a large immigrant population
Illegal immigrants are sent back across the border if they are caught.
Leonardo is an Italian immigrant who has a restaurant near the primary school.
the place where people's official documents are checked when they enter a country at an airport, port, border, etc.
After you've been through immigration (control), you can go and get your luggage.
immigration officers
The immigration officers looked at her as if she was suspected of doing something wrong.
when someone comes to live in a different country
immigration policy
There are strict limits on immigration (into the country).
The purpose of the party is to give a treat to my family members, as my immigration into New Zealand is approved.
coming or happening very soon
imminent danger
Therefore, I would kindly ask you to raise an appeal through your newspaper and draw attention to this imminent issue.
morally wrong
immoral behaviour
At this time - the early 20's -, tango was considered an immoral type of music; but Carlos Gardel changed this belief.
living or lasting forever
an immortal soul
Biotechnology seems to be the key to all the yet unsolved problems humans are facing. It might even make us immortal.
famous or remembered for a very long time
Then he uttered the immortal line - "My name is Bond".
In the immortal words of the bard "... if music be the food of love....... play on!"
not affected by a particular type of behaviour or emotion
He is immune to flattery.
Bad news on the other hand is so common that in order to cope with it, we simply ignore it - we have become immune to bad news and television, radio stations and newspapers are aware of it.
the cells and tissues in the body which make it able to protect itself against infection
Eating healthily will help to improve your immune system.
When you have lupus, your immune system produces anti-bodies against your own vital organs.
the effect that a person, event or situation has on someone or something
The anti-smoking campaign had/made quite an impact on young people.
The new proposals were intended to soften the impact of the reformed tax system.
I could live without watching TV, but it would make a serious impact on my life.
the force or action of one object hitting another
The impact of the crash reduced the car to a third of its original length.
The bullet explodes on impact.
to affect something or someone
Rising interest rates are sure to impact on the housing market.
Those extra calories, the fat and salt in our food and the decrease in vitamin rich food impacts on our health.
when someone is impatient
His impatience was obvious.
She remained silent for a while, taking no notice of my growing impatience.
easily annoyed by someone's mistakes or because you have to wait
He's a good teacher, but inclined to be a bit impatient with slow learners.
You'd be hopeless looking after children - you're far too impatient!
Hours passed and she became impatient and thought he had forgotten about their date.
wanting something to happen as soon as possible
He's got a lot of exciting ideas and he's impatient to get started.
People are increasingly impatient for change in this country.
I'm impatient to discover this country.
in an impatient way
"Yes, you said that before," she said, impatiently.
We were waiting impatiently for the show to begin.
I hope you will come soon because we are all impatiently waiting for your talk.
the form of a verb which is usually used for giving orders
In the phrase 'Leave him alone!', the verb 'leave' is an imperative/is in the imperative.
When an action or process is imperative, it is extremely important that it happens or is done.
It is imperative (that) I speak with him at once.
It is imperative, however, for people to alter their lifestyle and their attitudes towards the environment.
not perfect and with some mistakes
an imperfect solution
It goes without saying that native speakers are the best to talk to when learning the language (of course, if they don't mind your practising your imperfect English on them.)
not being friendly towards people or showing any interest in them
a cold and impersonal letter
To sum up, the only thing we can do is to find out a way to survive in such an impersonal working environment and create a more friendly and intimate atmosphere as before.
to make a law, system, plan, etc. start to happen or operate
The changes to the national health system will be implemented next year.
Rare species protection, on the other hand, can be implemented, e.g. by means of wildlife reserves and national parks.
when a plan or system is put into operation
The implementation of the new computer system went smoothly.
I think that congestion problems should be solved by the gradual implementation of taxes and charges, promoting use of public transport rather than individual cars or taxis.
a result or effect that seems likely in the future
financial/health implications
This scheme has serious implications for the local economy.
Any government must be fully aware of the wider implications for the economy and the wellbeing of its citizens.
when you seem to suggest something without saying it directly
The implication was that the school had to do much better or it would be closed.
In spite of that, the implication that famous sportsmen are worth paying more for than other famous people, for example well-known scientists, is an over-simplification.
when someone is involved in something bad
His career was ruined by his implication in the scandal.
I even thought that the maid could have taken it off my desk and used it as fuel for the boiler, but I checked with her and she denied any implication in the disappearance of the diary.
suggested but not stated directly
an implicit threat
We interpreted his silence as implicit agreement.
There was an implicit social code, which influenced people's relationships.
to suggest or show something, without saying it directly
Are you implying (that) I'm fat?
I'm not implying anything about your cooking, but could we eat out tonight?
I detected an implied criticism of the way he was treated.
I am not implying that the other options will not be to our advantage but I think that this one is what we really need.
If one thing implies another, the first thing shows that the second is likely to exist or be true.
Socialism implies equality.
Such mergers do unfortunately imply a massive loss of jobs, not only in Europe but also all over the world.
used to show that the name of something tells you something about it
The Long Room, as its name implies, runs the entire length of the house.
Sour Sweet, as the name implies, is originally a Chinese restaurant.
not polite
It is impolite to point at people.
Besides, the serving speed was too slow and some waiters were even impolite to customers.
to buy or bring in products from another country
We import a large number of cars from Japan.
Moreover they say we must be independent of the Near East countries from whom we import oil.
a product which is imported from another country
Japanese/American imports
cheap imports from Asia
Furthermore, cheap imports from the newly industrialised countries have also contributed to the increase in car ownership.
when you import something into a country
a ban on the import of beef
One of them, which is the most important for a government, is the import of foreign money.
how important someone or something is
Your views are of great importance to us.
The report stresses the importance of fresh food in a diet.
He emphasized the importance of following safety procedures.
The company recognizes the importance of regular staff training.
Now I know the importance of electricity.
valuable, useful or necessary
I think his career is more important to him than I am.
What are the most important ideas in this text?
It's important for children to learn to get on with each other.
The important thing is to keep the heat low or the sugar will burn.
This is not important for me.
having a lot of power, influence or effect
He was one of the most important writers of that period.
an important person/decision
Recently I've read two good books, "La Coscienza di Zeno" and "Uno, Nessuno e Centomila", that are written by Svevo and Pirandello, two of the most important writers of the XX century in Italy.
in a way that is important
If we served more soft drinks, there would be fewer hangovers and, more importantly, fewer drink-driving incidents.
Lastly, and most importantly, what is the cost?
to officially force a rule, tax, punishment, etc. to be obeyed or received
Very high taxes have recently been imposed on cigarettes.
Judges are imposing increasingly heavy fines for minor driving offences.
The council has imposed a ban on alcohol in the city parks.
Another advantage is that local governments could receive more money as they impose a fine or ask for a congestion charge.
to force someone to accept something, especially a belief or way of living
I don't want them to impose their religious beliefs on my children.
We must impose some kind of order on the way this office is run.
Above all, never allow others to impose their ideas on you.
when something is impossible
What you're asking just can't be done - it's an impossibility.
Simple tasks like watching television or listening to music become an impossibility when every five minutes or so they get drowned in a sea of noise.
If an action or event is impossible, it cannot happen or be done.
It was impossible to sleep because of the noise.
It seems impossible that I could have walked by without noticing her.
He made it impossible for me to say no.
I tried to find it but it was impossible!
very difficult to deal with
You just can't reason with her, she's absolutely impossible.
We found ourselves in an impossible situation.
I couldn't help laughing at the impossible situation that had resulted from the combination of my personal musings by the side of this wishing-well, and the boy's very straightforward and impulsive character.
to cause someone to admire or respect you
He tried to impress me with his extensive knowledge of wine.
All groups did their best to impress the public and every group played professionally.
feeling admiration or respect for someone or something
I was impressed by her professionalism.
He seemed suitably impressed by our efforts.
I am really impressed by your offer to paint me.
an idea, feeling or opinion about something or someone
I didn't get much of an impression of the place because it was dark when we drove through it.
What was your impression of Charlotte's husband?
I don't tend to trust first impressions.
When I first met him I got/had the impression that he was a shy sort of a guy.
You can look back fifty years to get an impression of what changes have happened.
the way that something seems, looks or feels to a particular person
It makes/gives/creates a very bad impression if you're late for an interview.
He likes to give the impression (that) he's terribly popular and has loads of friends.
I was afraid of being late or saying something wrong because I really wanted to make a good impression on this man.
to think or understand a particular stated thing
I was under the impression (that) you didn't get on too well.
He was under the mistaken impression (that) you were married.
I am under the impression that people generally exercise a little, but if they eat the wrong food every day, it won't help.
Someone or something that is impressive makes you admire and respect them.
She's a very impressive public speaker.
That was an impressive performance from such a young tennis player.
an impressive collection of modern paintings
There are some very impressive buildings in the town.
I think that the Westfield Music Festival was really impressive.
to put someone in prison or keep them as a prisoner
Taylor was imprisoned in 2005 for burglary.
DMX was a criminal and was imprisoned.
when someone is kept in a prison
She was sentenced to five years' imprisonment.
My brother, John, is just 16 years old, but was sentenced to two years' imprisonment for dealing in drugs.
to get better or to make something better
I thought the best way to improve my French was to live in France.
Her health has improved dramatically since she started on this new diet.
I'd like to have a pen-friend in Scotland, because it is very important for me to improve my English.
better than before
improved performance/results
a new and improved recipe
Emergency centres like hospitals and clinics must have the most improved medical devices to provide excellent care for the citizens.
when something gets better or when you make it better
There's been a big/great/huge/major/noticeable improvement in her work this term.
Sadly, Olivia's health has shown no improvement.
Just twenty to thirty minutes riding every day gives you a considerable improvement in your general state of health.
a change to something that makes it better
home improvements
It would be a pleasure for me to give you some tips on improvements to the cinema.
If there is room for improvement, something can be made better.
His work isn't bad but there's still some room for improvement.
She is Polish, aged 29 and can speak English pretty well, but there is still room for improvement, that's why she wants to spend a year in England, looking after children in an English-speaking family.
a sudden feeling that you must do something, without thinking about the results
Her first impulse was to run away.
He is, therefore, a sort of intellectual and represents the force of reason as opposed to the violent impulses of the other boys.
suddenly and without thinking first
I tend to act on impulse.
I'm seeing Milly as a capricious girl who, like most teenagers, enjoys buying, although I think that she buys on impulse.
Impulsive people do things suddenly, without planning or thinking carefully, but because they want to.
In an impulsive gesture, he threw his arms around her.
Anyway, the fact is that Hara struck me as a quite silly, impulsive and excessively spontaneous girl with no serious intellectual skills and spirit.
inside or towards the inside of a container, place or area
There's milk in the fridge.
Is Mark still in bed?
They live in an old cottage.
How much is that coat in the window?
What's that in your hand?
They used to live in Paris, but now they're somewhere in Italy.
My daughter's in hospital overnight.
He works in Austria now.
during part or all of a period of time
We're going to Italy in April.
I started working here in 2007.
Life in the 19th century was very different from what it is now.
She was a brilliant gymnast in her youth.
I haven't had a decent night's sleep in years/ages.
I like my country in March because spring is coming.
needing or using no more time than a particular amount of time
Can you finish the job in two weeks?
Dinner will be ready in ten minutes.
She could get that essay done in a couple of hours if she really tried.
My bedroom isn't too big, so we will finish in 1 hour.
forming a part of something
He used to be the lead singer in a rock band.
There are too many spelling mistakes in this essay.
I've been waiting in this queue for ages.
My sister sings in a pop group.
close to the front part of something or where someone can see or hear you
He parked the car in front of the house.
We can meet in front of the museum.
wearing
Do you recognize that man in the grey suit?
She's always dressed in red.
The man has to be dressed in black.
early or at the right time
We arrived in time to catch the train.
If I don't come back in time you can put a note on my desk.
before a particular time, or before doing a particular thing
If you're going to come, please let me know in advance.
I can help you if you want to book your room in advance.
used to emphasize what is really true, or to give more information
We met Rebecca for lunch. In fact, we spent the whole afternoon with her.
I was told there were some tickets left but in fact they were sold out.
The club has its own small clubhouse, with many things in it. For example, there was a big pinball-game and some computers. In fact it was the best clubhouse I've ever seen.
further forward than someone or something else
The car in front suddenly stopped and I went into the back of it.
She started talking to the man in front of her.
As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name. I believed it was my imagination or perhaps a dream because I couldn't see anyone in front, behind or opposite me.
liking someone very much and having romantic or sexual feelings for them
Have you ever been in love?
I think I am in love with him.
experiencing an emotion or condition
She's in a bad/good mood this morning.
You're in great danger.
He's living in luxury in the south of France.
I hope you are in a good mood today, because we are planning to go to Cinepolis.
arranged or divided in a particular way
We all sat down in a circle.
The desks were arranged in rows of ten.
Discounts are available to people travelling in large groups.
The books on these shelves are arranged in alphabetical order.
We often work in groups where we can talk in English.
as well (as)
In addition to his flat in London, he has a villa in Italy and a castle in Scotland.
In addition, I saw a wonderful programme about Aborigines.
finally, after something has been thought about or discussed a lot
We were thinking about going to Switzerland, but in the end we went to Austria.
And in the end he invited me to visit him at his house in Miami!
including or considering all the information about something or every part of something
We haven't discussed the matter in detail yet.
The book described her sufferings in great detail.
I'm really sorry that I didn't write back earlier, but to make up for this I will answer your questions in detail!
completely and with nothing missing
The bill must be paid in full by the end of the month.
Unfortunately, I wasn't able to read the e-mail in full, but as I understood, he wanted to apologise for what had happened between us many years ago.
beginning from now
Could you be more careful in future?
In future, I'm going to check every single piece of work that you do!
I hope it'll help me to understand many foreign people not only in my job, but everywhere I go in future.
usually, or in most situations
In general, men are taller than women.
In general, the weather here stays sunny.
In general, I like wearing informal clothes, like blue jeans and T-shirts, but sometimes I like wearing formal clothes too.
crying
I found him in tears in his bedroom.
By the end of it, Mary Anne was nearly in tears.
with the purpose of achieving something
He came home early in order to see the children before they went to bed.
She worked all summer in order to save enough money.
As you certainly remember, last year I spent three months in England in order to improve my English.
expressed or written in a particular way
They spoke in Russian the whole time.
Why not do a rough answer in pencil first?
Complete the form in (black) ink.
I also speak in English during the break.
especially
Are you looking for anything in particular?
I've read a lot of books recently, and in particular I liked: "Eleven minutes" and "Veronica decides to die", written by Paulo Coelho.
involved or connected with a particular subject or activity
a degree in philosophy
advances in medical science
I never knew you worked in publishing.
He is my age and we have the same tastes in music and art.
because of a possibility of something happening, being needed, etc.
I don't think I'll need any money but I'll bring some just in case.
Bring a map in case you get lost.
I have my mobile with me just in case.
when something happens, or in preparation for when something happens
We keep a bucket of water backstage, in case of fire.
It is about how to rescue people in case of an accident or a natural disaster.
considering the whole of someone or something, and not just a particular part of them
So, apart from the bad ankle, how are you in general?
I think that I, as well as people in general, would have been more depressed if we didn't have light.
to agree with or approve of a plan or idea
Most people are in favour of reducing traffic in cities.
I am certainly in favour of holding the music festival next year.
divided into two equal parts
Cut the potatoes in two.
Divide the dough in half and roll it out into two circles.
They were very surprised when they found the gold was cut in half.
used to emphasize what is really true, or to give more information
I thought she was Portuguese, but in actual fact she's Brazilian.
Nowadays almost all people own a car and in actual fact more and more people have been facing death as a consequence of careless driving.
used to give another reason for something you are saying, or that you have done
I don't want to go and in any case, I haven't been invited.
I suggest that you should in any case leave your car at home and take buses or other public means of transport.
because of the mentioned situation
There's no coffee left? In that case I'll have tea.
You could try kayaking. In that case, of course, you need to pay for the equipment.
used to show the total amount of something
Some of the children came, so there were 15 of us in all.
Secondly, even though most people liked the group RADIANT, they only played for 35 minutes in all.
used when referring to something that is done as a result of something else
I'd like to do something for you in return/exchange for everything you've done for me.
The changes are in response to demand from our customers.
He refused to say anything in reply to the journalists' questions.
I am writing to you in response to your advertisement of 1st December in the Times.
using only a few words
world news in brief
In brief, I have had a marvellous week.
in someone's opinion
In my parents' eyes, I'll always be a child.
To answer your question right away, the boat trip is highly recommendable in my eyes!
used to introduce the last part of a speech or a piece of writing
In conclusion, I would like to thank our guest speaker for her fascinating talk.
In conclusion, swimming is an enjoyable form of exercise and an excellent way to keep fit.
In conclusion, music, TV and clothes are very important in a young person's life and can reflect each person's character.
used to say what something is about
I am writing in connection with the above job advertised in The Daily Press on Monday 12th February.
A man has been arrested in connection with last month's murder.
Dear Mrs Brown, I am writing in connection with a surprise birthday party for your husband, Mr Brown.
at a suitable time in the future
The results will be sent to you in due course.
I look forward to hearing from you in due course.
towards someone
She keeps looking in my direction.
A player kicked the ball in my direction and I started to think about what I was going to do to catch that ball.
used to explain what something means in a different way
He said he's too busy - in other words he isn't interested.
They had had a great time before and had drunk too much alcohol. In other words, they were totally drunk.
An agreement that is in writing is official and is proof of that agreement.
Please confirm your reservation in writing.
I am telling you in writing that I would like to help you.
if vegetables or fruit are in season, they are available and ready to eat.
Asparagus is in season at the moment.
They celebrate Halloween in October when pumpkins are in season, that's why in the decorations they include them very often; most of the people carve the pumpkins and put some lights inside.
without telling other people
For years they met in secret.
We met in secret when Mary was busy.
feeling good/excited/unhappy, etc.
The whole class was in good spirits that day.
I was in high spirits until I got my paper back.
because of
In view of recent events, we have decided to cancel the meeting.
In view of what happened, I would advise you not to try to mislead people like this again.
in order to celebrate or show great respect for someone or something
a banquet in honour of the president
Finally we went to Corinth, where there are a lot of ancient sanctuaries which were built in honour of their gods.
If you do something in person, you go somewhere to do it yourself.
You have to collect the document in person.
I am looking forward to meeting you in person.
instead of something
Try adding fruit to your cereal in place of sugar.
In the advertisement, it said that Danny Brook was starring, but in place of him there was a different actor and he was really disappointing.
at the start of a situation
Why did you invite her in the first place?
In the first place, you were unknown people for me, but now you are my special foreign friends.
If something is true in practice, this is the real situation.
In practice, the new laws have had little effect.
When you leave school, you have knowledge but you do not know how to use it in practice.
in a place where nobody else can hear you or see what you are doing
The meeting was held in private.
I agree that this should be in private.
happening or being done now
Repair work is in progress on the south-bound lane of the motorway and will continue until June.
In the lower part of your advertisement, it also said there was a theatre restaurant, but in fact, it was closed because internal decoration was in progress.
when compared with something
Salaries are low in relation to the cost of living.
I think television has several advantages but also disadvantages in relation to books.
about or relating to something
I'd like to ask you something in relation to what you said earlier.
In relation to last month's social program, the sightseeing tour of London was divine, although we didn't get to see the entire city.
in a particular way, or in many ways
The school has changed in many respects.
How's your friend Mike? He is in many respects better than a computer, isn't he? (Teasing you again, sorry).
as an answer to
I'm writing in response to your letter of 14 February.
I am writing in response to your advertisement, which appeared in the newspaper on November the 23rd, looking for a person to work at weekends in your cafe.
one after another without a break
He's just won the tournament for the fifth year in a row.
Maradona was the captain of the team, and since he arrived, the team won three championships in a row.
available in a shop
Do you have the book in stock at the moment?
I would like to tell you that I am quite satisfied with the cinema and its customer service, but there is of course some room for improvement - for example referring to the cafe, which on the one hand has in stock a huge variety of groceries, but which on the other hand is very dark.
used to talk about a period in the past
In those days, boys used to wear short trousers.
In those days, life was much harder than now.
one after another
He spoke to the three boys in turn.
as a result of something that is part of a series of events
This could result in the loss of certain species of fish and this in turn poses a serious threat to the fishing communities along the river banks.
This, in turn, enabled them to find jobs and become financially independent from their husbands.
in the way described by a rule, law, or wish
Both companies have insisted that they were acting in accordance with the law.
Although they do not earn much money in this profession, they try to do their best and judge in accordance with the law which they also have to interpret.
in order to collect money for a group of people who need it
a concert in aid of famine relief
It would be an honour for us students at the centre if you could attend our sports function in aid of stressed out kids and present the prizes.
working together with
The event was organized in association with the Sports Council.
This service, which will be provided in association with Foster Loft, will be available at the end of 2005.
in large amounts
to buy in bulk
I suggest that you buy food in bulk so that you not only save money but also save time.
in the same way as someone or something
In common with many working mothers, she feels guilty about leaving her children.
In common with many city dwellers, I do not think this is a wise decision and it could have negative effects on the city residents' daily lives.
wanted or needed in large numbers
Good teachers are always in demand.
Nevertheless, people will always use cars and vehicles, so petrol will always be in demand.
if something happens
An airbag could save your life in the event of an accident.
In the event of bad weather, it would be wise to plan an alternative to the boat trip, for example a visit of Buckingham Palace or the Houses of Parliament.
whatever happens
I'm not sure if I'm coming on Friday, but in any event, I'll see you next week.
In any event, it is incumbent upon all of us to carefully plan our travel matters, so as to take advantage of their several benefits.
to be famous and often featured in the media
Her new role means that she will be in the public eye.
But being famous also means that you are always in the public eye, which is a major drawback.
If something is in your favour, it helps you to win or succeed.
Both sides have strong arguments in their favour.
Unfortunately the weather conditions were not in our favour, but the rain only lasted a few minutes and did not look at all like a downpour.
the particular way in which something appears or exists
The novel is written in the form of a series of letters.
The medicine comes in the form of a liquid or pills.
For all this, I can only say that I want my money back immediately, or some compensation in the form of a real trip to a real country.
used to say what you really think
In his heart he felt they were wrong.
It is all because it was followed by a big mistake, when I focussed on the German language and thought is was my dream. I have to admit that it was only a sensible decision, because deep in my heart I knew I wanted to learn English.
because you want something good to happen
She went to Paris in the hope of improving her French.
They wrote to the Prime Minister in the hope that he would help.
Not only would I want to travel back to understand Hitler's incredible success, but also in the hope of thwarting his plans.
to help someone and give them an advantage
It may not be in your interests to change jobs so soon.
It is in my interests to meet new people and I find it easy to go and talk to people I do not know.
If something is done or happens in the light of facts, it is done or happens because of those facts.
The drug has been withdrawn in the light of new research.
In the light of this news, we took this issue as a class project and investigated it by interviewing residents.
If you do something in moderation, you do not do it too much.
I only drink alcohol in moderation now.
While shopping can make one feel good and even has its positive impact on the retail economy, I think it should be done in moderation.
to have difficulty making a decision
I'm in two minds about accepting his offer.
If you are in two minds about having to share your room with someone else, there you can easily rent a studio apartment close to the college, which is situated in the centre of the city.
something that you say when you are describing something using as few words as possible
The answer, in a nutshell, is yes.
To put it in a nutshell, they all provide good food at reasonable prices.
If someone or something is in position, they are in the place that they should be in.
The police were all in position.
Remember to stay calm when you are in the car with the instructor, wear your seatbelt and check that all your mirrors are in position.
approximately
It probably cost somewhere in the region of £900.
I am willing to pay rent in the region of £1000 to £1200 monthly.
relating to a particular thing
I include payment in respect of your invoice of May 13th.
Instead of that, we should have more English grammar lessons - some of our English students are very interested in them, especially in respect of their exam this year.
in the opposite order or way
Do the same steps but this time in reverse.
They want to see what they are not like, how they would not react and this, in reverse, helps them to find themselves.
very soon
We'll be home in no time.
Team work is very important for us and you will make many friends in no time.
singing or playing the right notes
Try to stay in tune.
The public was singing in tune with Jag, hands were raised and bodies were slowly swaying.
as a result of something that is part of a series of events
This could result in the loss of certain species of fish and this in turn poses a serious threat to the fishing communities along the river banks.
This, in turn, enabled them to find jobs and become financially independent from their husbands.
without any success
I tried in vain to start a conversation.
We looked in vain for the guide through three London parks.
not at all
This is in no way your fault.
This magazine will be loved by students as it will help them learn English in the best way and in no way will students find it boring.
thinking about something in a particular way
In a sense, he's right.
In a sense this is correct, since you have to leave your natural environment to visit a place where no human being is meant to survive.
in a few words
In short, we need more staff.
In short, ancient Chinese poems, mainly from the Jang Dynasty, constitute the background for Chinese culture and set a touchstone for judgement in our life.
going to happen soon
You never know what's in store for you.
There's a bit of a shock in store for him when he gets home tonight!
Nobody knows what the future will have in store!
used to show when doing one thing is the cause of another thing happening
In refusing to work abroad, she missed an excellent job opportunity.
The government banned tobacco advertising and, in doing so, contributed greatly to the nation's health.
According to Montaigne's point of view, children and even "older" people ought to travel as much as possible. In doing so, they would receive an education that no school could provide them with.
not knowing about something because other people are not telling you
They kept us in the dark about their plans.
Peter had always kept her in the dark about the reason for their fight.
expecting something to happen or in preparation for something happening
She's even decorated the spare room in anticipation of your visit.
This has sometimes resulted in the comic phenomenon of people travelling to a distant country, in anticipation of encountering strange and original lifestyles, only to come across situations not very different from the one they have left in their own countries.
present at an event
They have doctors in attendance at every match.
Professional coaches are in attendance and the members can have proper lessons.
to feel great respect for and sometimes fear of someone
As children we were rather in awe of our grandfather.
As I was the eldest of the siblings, they used to respect all my orders and even now, they are a bit in awe of me.
extremely quickly
In the blink of an eye, he was gone.
And for all those who keep nagging about losing their favourite regular programmes during such an event, be patient: TV routine will be back into your living rooms in the blink of an eye.
in a cruel way, without showing any emotion
He shot three policemen in cold blood.
Returning to the story, when I arrived, I went directly to Hillton Avenue where I should have met 005, but when I arrived at the meeting point I found him lying on the floor with two shots in his back; he had been murdered in cold blood.
to be in the same unpleasant situation as other people
She complains that she doesn't have enough money, but we're all in the same boat.
Unemployment and its consequences is still a major problem. Now we are in the same boat.
not in a difficult situation or having problems any more
We have had money problems but we should be in the clear by next year.
"You're in the clear, you don't have to be afraid any more", it said.
If you tell something to someone in confidence, you do not want them to tell anyone else.
I'm sorry, she told me that in confidence.
His real name isn't Piggy but he told Ralph in confidence that they called him that in school because of his appearance.
working, used, or happening with something or someone else
Our librarians use their knowledge in conjunction with the computer network.
Therefore if the banning of private cars takes place in conjunction with development in the public transport system in that city, this whole development will have more advantages despite some slight difficulties at the start.
If bad things are done in the name of something, they are done in order to help that thing succeed.
So much blood has been spilt in the name of religion.
Recently, a Swedish priest compared homosexuality to cancer, and he did it in the name of religion.
in the area near a place
A number of buildings in the vicinity of the fire were damaged.
This centre would provide new sports and leisure premises for our town and would certainly attract young people from other towns in the vicinity as well.
used to say that someone or something does something to a large degree
They celebrate birthdays in a big way.
Tourism helps Greece's national economy - which is not at its best - in a big way.
used when you repeat what someone said
In the manager's words, the game was 'a total disaster'.
In the immortal words of the bard "... if music be the food of love....... play on!"
almost certainly
The facilities are wasted on people who in all likelihood will not use them.
In all likelihood, you will have to work during the weekends, even in summer, so I firmly believe that loving your job is very important.
to be similar to and suitable for something
They were offered a pay increase in line with inflation.
The other two courses, at 5%, are still in line with the national average.
If you do something in memory of a dead person, you do it to show your respect or love for them.
They built a statue in memory of those who died in the fire.
You see, every year our family performs a certain gathering in memory of my brother who was killed in a plane crash in 1991 known as the C130 disaster.
in your imagination or memory
In my mind's eye, she remains a little girl of six although she's actually a grown woman.
He sees her in his mind's eye, running around barefoot, laughing and squealing, wading in the water and running back out, screaming, trying to get away from the breaking waves.
If something is in miniature, it is a very small copy of something else.
a model of the ship in miniature
Thirdly a co-educational school is a society in miniature and it has many practical advantages.
to want to do or have something
I'm not really in the mood for shopping at the moment.
Should you be in the mood for a walk around the lake then go for it.
used to say what the real situation is
This means, in effect, that the plan has been scrapped.
However, if the government increases the amount of money they pay to the unemployed, that in effect means higher taxes for the citizens which will cause strikes and various other problems.
used to emphasize the most important idea or quality of something
In essence, its purpose is to contain information.
In essence, homelessness means that you don't have a home and because of this you are living on the streets.
while having to deal with a difficult situation or problem
She refused to leave him, in the face of increasing pressure from friends and family.
No doubt, it was rather difficult to like Enid X. She was hardly likely to arouse sympathy in anybody even in the face of death.
If you refuse or get rid of someone or something in favour of someone or something else, you choose them instead.
They dropped him from the team in favour of a much younger player.
The city council should revise the airport project ... and change the current location of the airport in favour of a more isolated area.
immediately, or very quickly
I'll be back in a flash.
He took it and, in a flash, he came up to the surface.
being worked on or dealt with now
Despite the pressures we are determined to get on with the job in hand.
Miss Kenton keeps asking Stevens whether everything is in hand and whether her help is required.
used when you are saying what you really think or feel about something
In all honesty, I'd rather not go.
It is easy to say that government funding should be raised to make classes smaller and materials more relevant, but in all honesty, Danish schools are working very well indeed.
used to give your opinion about something, often when you are sure you are right
In my humble opinion, that's the wrong decision.
In my humble opinion, there's no such thing as a uniform celebrity, good, bad or otherwise.
Something that is in its infancy has only just begun to develop.
In the 1950s, space travel was in its infancy.
in order to achieve a particular situation or quality
In the interest of safety, passengers are advised to wear their seat belts at all times.
First of all, do make sure that the front door is always locked. In the interests of everybody's security, it is essential to remember this.
alone, or separately from other people, places, or things
These poems cannot be considered in isolation.
In conclusion, it is my opinion that the problem of parking space cannot be solved in isolation.
partly
He is in part to blame for the accident.
Technology is in part to blame.
when things are in perspective, you think about them in a sensible and realistic way, and understand how important or unimportant they really are
You must keep things in perspective - the overall situation isn't really that bad.
When you see pictures of their suffering, it puts your own problems in perspective.
I think it will enable me to see things more in perspective.
in the correct position
The chairs are all in place.
I looked neat and clean even after the wildest games in the school yard, with all the ribbons that tied my long hair in place.
If a rule, system, etc. is in place, it has started to exist.
There are now laws in place to prevent this from happening.
Let's take the example of Mexico City, where such restrictions have been in place since early 2000.
If you agree with something in principle, you agree with the idea or plan although you do not know the details or you do not know if it will be possible.
They have approved the changes in principle.
In principle, one can agree with both positions pointed out in this statement.
used to mean that something is very likely
She will, in all probability, have left before we arrive.
Anybody who can fulfill the above conditions will in all probability be successful.
If something is being done, and something else happens in the process, the second thing happens as a result of doing the first thing.
She stood up to say hello and spilled her drink in the process.
The tunnel was built, but many lives were lost in the process.
If an attempt is made to move them to another location they will probably die in the process.
to have started doing something
We're in the process of painting our apartment.
This feeling of affinity is especially important for young people and teenagers who are in the process of creating their own identity and I also believe that sportsmen and sportswomen make great role models.
If something changes in proportion to another thing, it changes to the same degree as that thing.
Your tax payment increases in proportion to your salary.
One aspect of the question is the fact that a sportsman's salary is supposedly not in proportion to the number of hours he works.
the person or thing that is being discussed
He claims that he was in the pub with his girlfriend on the night in question.
While this is not necessarily false, it should be borne in mind that the events in question are by no means boring or uninteresting.
If your bank account is in the red, you have spent more money than there was in it.
I expect I'm in the red again.
Her bank account was in the red.
thinking now about something in the past
In retrospect, I should probably have told her.
But now I could in retrospect conclude that it was too much: that tattoo displaying a cannabis leaf should have been enough for me to at least wonder whether something was really wrong with my son.
in a bad situation where you do the same things all the time, or where it is impossible to make progress
He seems to be stuck in a rut at the moment.
Financial security, all the, let me call them, background benefits are important, but if you do not love what you do, soon you will become bitter, stuck in a rut or worse - you will suffer from depression.
to be acceptable in a way that will not upset or anger people
His speech was in good taste.
I therefore thought that it would be in good taste to write about two of them.
to be unacceptable in a way that will upset or anger people
He told a joke about a plane crash which I thought was in rather poor taste.
in a direct and often angry way
I told him to go away in no uncertain terms.
Intellectuals are used to saying in no uncertain terms that money represents the bad side of the sport.
to understand what someone wants or needs or to understand a situation and act in a way that is suitable for it
The government is not in tune with the voters.
I am not exactly in tune with all the latest trends but I know which styles give me the most satisfaction.
because of or for this reason
The course is good in that it provides a very practical training.
Nowadays it is widely argued that professional sports are damaging to people's health in that they involve gruelling training sessions as an integral part of the occupation.
into an area or space from the outside of it
Could you bring the clothes in for me?
Cut the pastry into a square and turn in the corners.
First I brought in the big cake that my father had bought.
at the place where a person usually lives or works
Mr Ellis isn't in this week.
Could you ask him to ring me when he gets in?
My neighbour wasn't in.
having arrived at the place where people can get on or off
What time is Roz's flight due in?
given or sent to someone official in order to be read
When does your essay have to be in?
Remember to get your application in by the end of the week.
If someone is in for a surprise, treat, shock, etc., it will happen to them soon.
If he thinks looking after a baby is easy, he's in for a shock.
Holidays do revive the spirit and renew the soul, provided you have a positive attitude towards life and bear in mind that they are just a fragment of reality. Otherwise, you are in for a disappointment.
the details of a particular subject
the ins and outs of the legal system
I knew all the ins and outs of every story but I couldn't stay one single day in bed without reading it.
when you are unable to do something
I'm depressed by the police's inability to reduce street crime.
They were sick and tired of the government's inability to break the vicious circle of the crisis.
something such as a statement or number that is not correct
The report contained many inaccuracies.
Apart from these inaccuracies, the group members have a lot of complaints.
not correct or exact
inaccurate information/figures
Due to your inaccurate information, I was late and missed part of the show.
not good enough or too low in quality
Our equipment is totally inadequate for a job like this.
First of all, I found the seats inadequate and my seat belt was broken.
not enough
inadequate funds
So, the inadequate number of computers could not cover students' needs.
not suitable
inappropriate behaviour
It would be inappropriate for me to comment, without knowing the facts.
Secondly, the music was completely inappropriate to young people, because the band was chosen by the previous principal of our college.
in a way that is not suitable
The meeting was inappropriately handled and an argument broke out.
For instance, the refreshment tent was inappropriately located, making it difficult for the participants to reach it.
not able to do something or to feel a particular emotion
I think she's incapable of love.
He's incapable of controlling his temper.
Earl has lost most of his eyesight and he is incapable of assembling the planes without my help.
something that encourages you to act in a particular way
People had little incentive to save.
The government should provide incentives for young people to stay in school.
Not surprisingly, they value financial rewards over other kinds of incentives.
a unit used for measuring length, which is approximately equal to 2.54 centimetres, sometimes shown by the symbol ″
Twelve inches are equal to one foot.
He had a cut an inch long above his left eye.
The snow was six inches deep in some places.
a piece of wood 2″ by 2″
He was one inch tall with strange clothes.
an event which is either unpleasant or unusual
an unfortunate incident
A youth was seriously injured in a shooting incident on Saturday night.
After that incident I never cheated again and I never talked to that teacher again.
used when you add related but less important information to what has just been said or when you suddenly introduce a new subject
Incidentally, talking of Stephen, have you met Stephen's girlfriend?
Incidentally, there is another big Turkish Bath in Ginarah.
a feeling that you want to do something
She showed little inclination to leave.
By inclination, she tended to take an interest in the lives of other people.
to have an opinion, but not a strong opinion
I'm inclined to agree with you.
I am inclined to believe that the Open Day will reassure all the local residents that our college is one of major importance and our students creative and intelligent people.
often behaving in a particular way
Tom is inclined to be forgetful.
People are naturally inclined to try to earn more at every stage of their career.
wanting to do something
No one seemed inclined to help.
Moreover, it is imperative that public transport be improved, so that people will be less inclined to use their cars.
having natural artistic/technical, etc. ability
She's very curious, but not academically inclined.
My first suggestion is a pottery class that I think would be greatly appreciated by the more creatively inclined among the students.
to contain something or someone as a part of something else, or to make someone or something part of something else
The bill includes tax and service.
Tax and service are included in the bill.
Your responsibilities will include making appointments on my behalf.
The group includes many ex-soldiers.
It includes the latest technology with all the extras.
used to show that a person or thing is part of a larger group, amount or process
Eight people, including two children, were injured in the explosion.
It's £24.99, including postage.
At my party we danced a lot and everybody was there, including Amanda, Bruna, and Paola.
when you include someone or something, especially in a group, amount, or event
Her self-portrait was chosen for inclusion in the exhibition.
In basketball, for instance, changes in the most important competitions, such as the inclusion of foreign players, have given players the opportunity to be successful not only in their country but also worldwide.
An inclusive price or amount includes everything.
Prices are inclusive of flights and accommodation.
When considering the rent, inclusive or exclusive of bills will make a big difference.
money that you earn by working, investing or producing goods
Average incomes have risen by 4.5% over the past year.
More help is needed for people on low incomes.
I haven't had much income from my stocks and shares this year.
When you are a student, you don't have any income.
impossible to imagine
I find it inconceivable that she could be a killer.
First of all, it is inconceivable that a young child should be raised almost without his/her parents, surrounded by myriad toys, gadgets and games instead.
not caring about other people's situations or the way they feel
It was very inconsiderate of you to keep us all waiting.
Although their deed is impolite and inconsiderate, they should be forgiven.
when something is inconvenient, or something that is inconvenient
The Director apologized for any inconvenience caused.
Having to wait for ten minutes was a minor inconvenience.
I am sorry for any inconvenience these requirements may cause to you.
involving or causing difficulty, such as unexpected changes or effort
I'm sorry, I seem to have called at an inconvenient time.
Please call him and make an alternative arrangement if it is inconvenient for you.
to include something as part of another thing
He began to incorporate dance and mime into his plays.
These are just some of the ideas that I feel can be incorporated into your project.
not correct
an incorrect answer
Your figures are incorrect.
Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing to you concerning some incorrect information about Lampton that I have found in the Student Tourist Guidebook.
to get bigger or to make something bigger in amount or size
Sales of laptops have increased over the last few years.
The cost of the project has increased dramatically/significantly since it began.
Gradually increase the temperature to boiling point.
It is amazing how the violence in Rio increased in these last few years.
a rise in the amount or size of something
price/tax increases
There were 39, 000 new cases last year - an increase of 7 per cent.
Any increase in production would be helpful.
Since bicycles became so popular, there has been an increase in the number of accidents.
If something is on the increase, it is happening more often.
Violent crime is on the increase.
The number of motorists is on the increase everywhere in the world.
more and more
to be increasingly important/common
Increasingly, there is pressure on the council to reverse its decision.
Among them are the increasingly popular reality shows and all the daily news about gossip and scandal.
very good, exciting or large
We had an incredible time that summer.
They gave us an incredible amount of food.
The weather here is incredible and we have the most beautiful beaches in the world, in my opinion.
impossible, or very difficult, to believe
It seems incredible that no one complained.
It was incredible but it was true.
extremely
I think the team played incredibly well.
It was incredibly crowded.
in a way that is difficult to believe
Incredibly, no one was hurt.
Incredibly, and against all my expectations, everything started going wrong from the very beginning.
to lose money, owe money, or have to pay money because of something that has happened
The company incurred huge losses as a result of its investments.
One of the principal problems is that governments all around the world are incurring great costs in order to maintain a national health system.
impossible to cure
an incurable disease
Most of the incurable illnesses of the past are no longer a threat, which means that the people live longer and longer than they used to.
really or certainly, often used to emphasize something
Indeed, it could be the worst environmental disaster in Western Europe this century.
Evidence suggests that errors may indeed be occurring.
We live in strange times indeed.
Many people are very poor indeed.
Thank you very much indeed.
used when you say more to support or develop what has already been said
For such creatures speed is not important, indeed it is counterproductive.
It would be very difficult to define a country's culture by choosing only one characteristic of that country; indeed, it is a great variety of things such as language, politics, religion, customs, etc. that shape the culture of every country.
the grammatical name for the words "a" and "an" in English or words in other languages which have a similar use
In the above sentence, for example, the rhematic nature of the subject is signaled by its indefinite article.
for a period of time for which no end has been fixed
His visit has been postponed indefinitely.
Each one of them tries so painfully to hide away the natural feelings emanating from within. But it is simply impossible to do so indefinitely.
when someone looks after themselves and does not need money, help or permission from other people
It's important that parents should allow their children some independence.
If you follow my instructions, you'll achieve financial independence sooner than you would have thought.
when a country has its own government and is not ruled by another country
Mexico gained its independence from Spain in 1821.
Another film, Brave Heart, is about independence.
not taking help or money from other people
Grandma's very independent and does all her own shopping and cooking.
I've always been financially independent.
I'm an independent person, and I like to be.
not influenced or controlled in any way by other people, events or things
an independent enquiry/organization
The group is independent of any political party.
The film programme is excellent, as you show a large variety of independent films that are not the usual mainstream films and block busters.
An independent country is not governed or ruled by another country.
Belize became fully independent from Britain in 1981.
Tibet, once an independent country, is now part of China.
After 1918, our city again became the capital of an independent state.
in a way that is independent
The two scientists both made the same discovery independently, at roughly the same time.
Each part of the organization operates independently of the others.
What students should understand is the existence of links among apparently different subjects and the impossibility of studying them independently or, worse, studying one and neglecting the others.
an alphabetical list, such as one printed at the back of a book showing which page a subject, name, etc. is found on
Try looking up 'heart disease' in the index.
The negative point of the book was its lack of an index.
to say something or give a signal to show what you mean or what you intend to do
Please indicate which free gift you would like to receive.
She indicated to me (that) she didn't want me to say anything.
I have just received your letter informing me that I won a two week holiday at Camp California, so I am writing to you to indicate my preferences regarding travel and accommodation.
to show that something exists or is likely to be true
Recent evidence indicates that the skeleton is about 3 million years old.
Exploratory investigations have indicated large amounts of oil below the sea bed.
In fact, the study also indicates that time spent on watching TV has surged, especially during the last decade.
a sign showing that something exists or is likely to be true
There are strong indications that the case will be referred to the Court of Appeal.
Unfortunately, after the equipment was installed and plugged into the mains, black smoke came out of the back, which in my opinion is an indication of a failure of some sort.
a sign showing what someone means or what they intend to do
Helen's face gave no indication of what she was thinking.
Rumour had it that Peter secretly brought roses early every morning to her doorstep, as an indication of his love for her.
something that shows what a situation is like
Commodity prices can be a useful indicator of inflation.
The right-wing thinkers claim that unemployment is one of the indicators in the economy, displaying lack of balance between industrial output and citizens' demands.
when you do not care about something or have any particular opinions about it
an air of indifference
On the other hand, there were some voices expressing their indifference towards money.
not caring about or interested in someone or something
They are indifferent to the plight of the unemployed.
Being a resident of our area yourself, you may not be entirely indifferent to the plans of the local authorities concerning the construction of a new supermarket.
not directly caused by or connected with something
Indirect effects of the fighting include disease and food shortages.
At school, children should follow many rules. For example, they should finish their homework and respect other students' opinions. From these experiences, children can experience social life in indirect ways, and can learn how to be good members of society.
done or caused in a way that is not obvious
indirect taxes/costs
an indirect criticism
According to some experts there are just two solutions: delaying the age of retirement or increasing indirect taxes such as VAT.
in a way that is not direct
She still controls the company indirectly, through her son.
This indirectly improves the quality of life and people will feel re-energised.
completely necessary
an indispensable tool/guide
She quickly became indispensable to him.
We should not be led to believe that computers are the indispensable ingredient to our well-being, though neither should we deny their wide-ranging potential.
obviously and certainly true
an indisputable fact
It is an indisputable fact that young people do not have any anxieties as far as housework is concerned because every house is equipped with labour-saving devices.
considered separately from the other things in a group
Read out the individual letters of each word.
Well, this place is a group of small individual islands and there aren't many things that you can do in the capital city as it's so small and crowded.
given to or relating to one particular person or thing
We deal with each case on an individual basis.
We all have an individual password.
The first lesson started with an individual presentation.
a person, especially when considered separately and not as part of a group
We try to treat our students as individuals.
Every individual has rights which must never be taken away.
I can work as part of a team but also as an individual.
a person with a particular characteristic
a ruthless individual
These are all hard-working individuals.
I realise that his character has changed a little with the passing of time; I can understand that he is nervous and that has turned into a selfish individual who only cares about himself.
the quality of being different from others
The houses had no character and no individuality.
As an intellectual, he refuses to annihilate his individuality and degenerate into savagery.
separately rather than with others
I spoke to them all individually.
The sweets are individually wrapped.
This has the additional advantage that students can work individually on what seems to be most necessary for them.
happening, used or situated inside a building
indoor sports/activities
an indoor swimming pool
We played a lot of indoor games at the party.
into or inside a building
Come indoors, it's cold outside.
Spring bulbs can be grown indoors.
I love being indoors, eating or watching TV.
to let yourself do or have something that you enjoy but which may be bad for you
They indulged in a bit of gossip.
Go on, indulge yourself! Have another chocolate.
Eating disorders of various kinds are certainly not unknown to our culture, yet we seem to be less concerned about what we shouldn't do than what we tend to indulge ourselves in.
to let someone do or have anything they want
Their children are dreadfully indulged.
In an attempt to give them instant gratification, their parents do their utmost to fulfill their wishes and as a consequence of this, children become utterly indulged.
connected with industry, or having a lot of industry and factories, etc.
industrial expansion
an industrial landscape
He has an industrial background.
I am sure that both ideas will improve the look of our industrial town.
the process of developing industries in a country
Japan's rapid industrialization
With industrialization and economic development, Hong Kong people's standards of living have also improved dramatically.
Industrialized countries have a lot of industry.
the industrialized nations
The role of women has changed during the past 100 years but there are still a lot of changes needed not only in developing countries but also in industrialized countries like Germany.
Industrious people work hard.
He is good at his work and very industrious.
The society wouldn't be as advanced as it is unless we had well educated, efficient and industrious workers.
the people and activities involved in one type of business
the gas/electricity industry
the tourist industry
manufacturing industries
The computer industry has been booming.
As you know, I would like to work in the tourism industry, so I thought this course could be good to improve my English.
the production of goods in factories
trade and industry
industry and commerce
The city needs to attract more industry.
If you are interested in local industry, there is the Prefectural Local Industry museum.
not suitable for eating
The meat was inedible.
The fruit was rotten, the sandwich inedible.
Inefficient people or things waste time, money or effort, and do not achieve as much as they should.
an inefficient heating system
The conditions in the coaches are poor with the leg room only for small children, the safety belts broken, and an inefficient air-conditioner.
when some groups in a society have more advantages than others
inequality between the sexes
She was surrounded by poverty and inequality and grew more and more dissatisfied with the Government's policies, whether internal or foreign.
certain to happen and unable to be avoided or prevented
The accident was the inevitable consequence/result/outcome of carelessness.
Strikes always cause some problems but sometimes they are inevitable.
in a way that cannot be avoided
Their arguments inevitably end in tears.
Should you, my humble reader, happen to reach fame and fortune, try never to forget that appearing always as an ordinary human being would inevitably grant you more empathy from the people surrounding you.
cheap but of good quality
inexpensive children's clothes
It has far more advantages than the countryside, starting with the excellent accommodation, which is inexpensive and easy to find.
without much experience or knowledge of something
Abigail Kennedy was young and inexperienced.
The advertisement said that Danny Brook was one of the starring actors but he was replaced by another extremely disappointing and inexperienced actor.
so strange or unusual that you cannot understand or explain it
To me his behaviour was quite inexplicable.
Although for inexplicable reasons she can be really stubborn sometimes, I admire her courage to admit her mistakes and apologize.
when you are a baby or a very young child
Their fourth child died in infancy.
The young musician filled my days of infancy with 'London Bridge is Falling Down.'
Something that is in its infancy has only just begun to develop.
In the 1950s, space travel was in its infancy.
a baby or very young child
Mothers and infants were allowed to board the plane first.
The cells are extremely active while we are infants, but as we grow older, their efficiency weakens.
to give someone a disease
Thousands of people were infected with the virus.
It was only a small clinic, that refused to give attention to a group of young people all infected with AIDS.
If a computer virus infects a computer, it harms it
My computer was infected by a virus.
With CLEAN-MAIL, you can protect your computers from getting infected with viruses effectively: virus-mails are deleted before they even arrive at your mailbox.
If a place, wound, or substance is infected, it contains bacteria or other things that can cause disease.
The wound became infected.
infected water/meat
When the water got too badly infected, your mind could not ignore it any more and got sick.
a disease in a part of your body that is caused by bacteria or a virus
a serious infection
a throat infection
Bandage the wound to reduce the risk of infection.
He told me that she was suffering from a kidney infection.
An infectious disease can be passed from one person to another.
Hepatitis is an infectious disease.
For example, epidemics of major infectious diseases like cholera or meningitis carry the risk of transferring the focus of infection to any part of the world.
Infectious laughter or feelings quickly spread from one person to another.
infectious enthusiasm
I have found that feelings and emotions are infectious and people tend to be happier with people who are fun-loving and take life less seriously.
to guess that something is true because of the information that you have
I inferred from the number of cups that he was expecting visitors.
From the above, it can be inferred that the major causes of land degradation vary according to regions.
not good, or not so good as someone or something else
I've never felt inferior to anyone.
They're selling inferior products at inflated prices.
Young girls often feel inferior to boys in the same class.
someone who is considered to be less important than other people
She considered me her inferior.
Broadly speaking, he appears to be an inferior, a non-human, in the opinion of the other boys.
when someone feels they are not as good as other people or when something is not as good as another thing
With these talented sisters, I always had a feeling of inferiority.
Critics suggest that these policies have not benefited poor black Americans, that they have impeded the development of social problems and that they have inhibited black Americans and other discriminated groups through a deep sense of inferiority.
extremely large or great
an infinite variety/number of options
She took infinite care with the painting.
An overwhelming selection of goods, shops and even types of shopping has provided us with an infinite number of products to choose from.
very or very much
Travel is infinitely more comfortable now than it used to be.
It would be infinitely preferable for the people to park their cars in the multi-storey car park.
the basic form of a verb that usually follows 'to'
In the sentences 'I had to go' and 'I must go', 'go' is an infinitive.
'Go' is the infinitive form.
the rate at which prices increase, or a continuing increase in prices
high/low inflation
the rate of inflation
3% inflation
In this country of high inflation we could save some money.
the power to affect how someone thinks or behaves, or how something develops
The drug companies can have a lot of influence on doctors.
At the time she was under the influence of her father.
Picasso had a big influence on art in the twentieth century.
Today's computers have a massive influence on the whole of society.
If someone or something is a bad/good influence on someone, they have a bad/good effect on them.
Television can be a bad influence on children.
Some people say that cell phones are a bad influence on the younger generation.
to affect or change how someone or something develops, behaves or thinks
Were you influenced by anybody at the beginning of your career?
What influenced you to choose a career in nursing?
Our life has been influenced by modern technology.
having a lot of influence
an influential figure in modern jazz
Although not being directly involved in global politics anymore, he is still a very powerful and influential person.
the arrival of a lot of people or things at the same time
The 1990s saw an influx of foreign players into British football.
Countries are known mainly for their history, that is why there is an influx of tourists in places with historical interest.
to tell someone about something
If he calls me again, I shall inform the police.
I informed my boss that I was going to be away next week.
This letter is to inform you that I will not be able to attend tomorrow's class due to medical issues.
to give someone information about something
Patients should be informed about the risks.
Anyway, once a month I read gossip magazines and every day I read newspapers to be informed.
not formal or official
The two groups agreed to hold an informal meeting.
He's the ideal sort of teacher - direct, friendly and informal.
'Hi' is an informal way of greeting people.
The dress-code is informal but neat and there'll be plenty of drinks and snacks.
in an informal way
It's an outdoor party, so dress informally.
We dress casually and very informally and you often see body piercings and tattoos being displayed around the place.
facts about a situation, person, event, etc.
to find out/get information
Do you have any information about/on train times?
I read an interesting bit/piece of information in the newspaper.
For further information, please contact your local library.
We have reliable information that a strike is planned next month.
For other information call me on 753784
containing a lot of useful facts
a very informative lecture
There were presentations from many different industries, some of them very informative and entertaining.
the basic systems and services, such as transport and power supplies, that a country or organization uses in order to work effectively
The war has badly damaged the country's infrastructure.
It is very easy to build homes but at the same time forgetting to upgrade the infrastructure and facilities.
a food that is used with other foods in the preparation of a particular dish
The list of ingredients included 250g of almonds.
The chef had used good, fresh ingredients.
one of the parts of something successful
Trust is an essential ingredient in a successful marriage.
In my opinion it is clear that with these "ingredients" you can make an interesting video about daily life at our school.
to live in a place
an area inhabited by artists and writers
The Cranleigh housing estate has only been built recently and is mainly inhabited by young families with teenage children who wanted to escape from the rush and the traffic of the city to the pleasant suburban refuge that Cranleigh offers.
a person or animal that lives in a particular place
a city of 5 million inhabitants
I think that the town has about 2000 inhabitants in winter.
existing as a natural and basic part of something
The desire for freedom is inherent in all people.
However, it is important to bear in mind the inherent pressures that come with fortune and fame.
to receive money or possessions from someone after they have died
Who will inherit the house when he dies?
All her children will inherit equally.
I wouldn't mind if it was just a scratch to any other piece of  furniture but I couldn't contain myself when my mother burst into tears looking at a broken leg of an antique chair inherited from my grandfather.
to have the same physical or mental characteristics as one of your parents or grandparents
Miranda has inherited her father's red hair.
Her grandparents were from Sweden, and she had inherited blond hair and blue eyes from them.
money or possessions that someone gives you when they die
Nick has sold off much of his inheritance.
When they first moved in they seemed to all of us like a "typical" family, not very wealthy but managing to live in the neighbourhood due to the inheritance they had received from Gina's mother.
a feeling of embarrassment or worry that prevents you from saying or doing what you want
The whole point about dancing is to lose all your inhibitions.
Secondly, parents are the closest and most easily accessible wealth of knowledge. Children lose their inhibitions and freely ask their curious questions.
extremely cruel
the inhuman treatment of prisoners
Not very long ago, when some of us thought it wasn't possible anymore, the same terrible inhuman mistakes as in the past were happening.
the first letter of a name, especially when used to represent a name
He wrote his initials, P.M.R., at the bottom of the page.
Paul M. Reynolds refused to say what the initial "M" stood for.
They carved their initials into a tree.
It was black and my initials were inside it.
first, or happening at the beginning
My initial reaction was one of anger.
Initial reports say that seven people have died, though this has not yet been confirmed.
All this may seem trivial and unimportant to an ordinary man addicted to his TV-set, forgetting the initial impulse that made him choose this way of life.
at the beginning
Initially, most people approved of the new scheme.
The damage was far more serious than initially believed.
He initially disagreed with his wife but after much persuasion, he finally gave in.
to make something begin
The reforms were initiated by Gorbachev.
He initiated a restoration of the sports centre in the town where he lives and he donates money to charity regularly.
a plan or activity that is done to solve a problem or improve a situation
a new government initiative to reduce crime
The peace initiative was welcomed by both sides.
Any government as well as grass root initiative will have an effect on pollution problems, but firstly, we need to change our society's overall mentality.
the ability to make decisions and do things without needing to be told what to do
We need someone who can work on their own initiative.
I shouldn't always have to tell you what to do - use your initiative.
She showed a lot of initiative.
It is difficult to judge whether you show more initiative than the others or not.
to be the first person to do something that solves a problem or improves a situation
Jackson had taken the initiative and prepared a report.
I took the initiative to contact Sue Wilton, who is the manager of the restaurant "El Plato".
when someone puts a drug into your body using a needle
an injection of insulin
This visit was only to be the beginning of it all, as numerous trips to the hospital, fertility clinics, pills and injections soon became a part of their lives together.
when a large amount of money is provided for a plan, service, organization, etc.
The university has welcomed the $5 million cash injection.
There are few areas such as the information technology, library resources and overseas visits, that need this financial injection.
to hurt a person, animal or part of your body
A bomb exploded at the embassy, injuring several people.
She fell and injured her shoulder.
He was badly/seriously injured in the crash.
Nobody from my family was injured, so that was one good piece of news.
hurt or physically harmed
She was told to stay in bed to rest her injured back.
Zoos can take care of injured animals and help them.
damage to someone's body in an accident or an attack
a head/back/knee injury
a serious/slight injury
Injuries to the spine are common amongst these workers.
They were lucky to escape (without) injury.
Professional footballers can also have serious injuries during their life as a footballer.
to make someone's bad situation worse by doing something else to upset them
To add insult to injury, we had to pay for the damage!
To add insult to injury, such an approach often turns out to be counterproductive.
a situation or action in which people are treated unfairly
the fight against racial injustice
the injustices of the legal system
Adults enjoy the stories too, because it somehow reflects the society that we live in, and how justice is always on the stronger side than injustice.
a coloured liquid that you use for writing, printing, or drawing
a bottle of ink
blue/black/red ink
Please write in ink, not in pencil.
The book is printed in three different coloured inks.
Her father had shown her once how to write with an invisible ink.
An innate quality or ability is one that you were born with, not one you have learned.
He has an innate desire to win.
His innate ability to act as a motivator for other people has helped him obtain excellent leadership skills.
on the inside or near the middle of something
Leading off the main hall is a series of small inner rooms.
Even in the inner city, streets are dark and don't give the feeling of safety after sunset.
Inner feelings or thoughts are ones that you do not show or tell other people.
Sarah always seemed to have a deep sense of inner peace.
Every now and then everybody feels an inner call for changes, and one of those changes might be a journey somewhere in the world.
when someone is not guilty of a crime
She pleaded her innocence, but no one believed her.
She fought to prove her son's innocence.
They were released after seven years in jail and were determined to prove their innocence and find the real murderer.
when someone does not have much experience of life and does not know about the bad things that happen
the innocence of childhood
She has a childlike innocence which I find very appealing.
From the day we're born, our awareness of the world and its people increases. With it comes knowledge and capability but also the loss of innocence.
not guilty of committing a crime
He firmly believes that she is innocent of the crime.
The plan works: the jury thinks that the wife is a notorious liar and her husband is found innocent.
not having much experience of life and not knowing about the bad things that can happen
an innocent young woman
She is so innocent and doesn't understand anything which is happening around her.
used to emphasize that someone who was hurt had done nothing wrong
Several innocent civilians were killed in the bombing.
While Jem was stealing horses, his brother was a murderer of innocent people.
not intended to harm or upset anyone
It was an innocent mistake.
It was an innocent comment/remark, I didn't mean to hurt his feelings.
On the spur of the moment, I advised him to try it and that's what turned an innocent episode into a nightmare.
in an innocent way
"Have I done something wrong?" she asked innocently.
He said he had obtained the television innocently, not knowing it had been stolen.
Denny had innocently turned on the light to see if there was anything of interest in the other room.
a new idea or method that is being tried for the first time, or the use of such ideas or methods
the latest innovations in education
There was a barrage of creativity and innovation rarely seen in human history.
using new methods or ideas
an innovative approach to programme making
Problems like this will probably appear again and again but we have to believe that they can be solved in an innovative way.
very many, or too many to count
innumerable problems
Due to the fact that sport is given a lot of importance in Switzerland, there are innumerable facilities available.
ideas, money, effort, etc. that you put into a process or acitivity in order to help it succeed
Input from students is used to develop new and exciting courses.
I could go on but my intention was to give you some input to stimulate your brain!
information that is put into a computer or the act of putting information into a computer
Data input is carried out by a team based overseas.
to ask for information
Shall I inquire about the price of tickets?
She rang up to inquire when her car would be ready.
"Where are we going?" he inquired politely.
"Say Mary, when did the war begin?", inquired the old lady.
a question that you ask when you want more information
I've been making inquiries about/into the cost of a round-the-world ticket.
Dear Sue, I apologize for not responding to your letter for so long, but I didn't forget to make some inquiries relating to the job in the Water Sports Centre.
an official process to discover the facts about something bad that has happened
a judicial inquiry
Citizens have demanded a full inquiry into the government's handling of the epidemic.
I am very much surprised that such problems had not been foreseen by the public inquiry.
the process of asking questions in order to get information
Inquiry into the matter is pointless - no one will tell you anything.
Upon inquiry, it became clear it was in Tim's possession, more precisely in his diary.
very silly or stupid
an insane decision
It was an insane idea to accommodate me so far away from the school (approximately four miles).
seriously mentally ill
a hospital for the criminally insane
It seemed as if she had become insane but it was only a way of surviving an impossible situation.
a small creature with six legs, for example a bee or a fly
Ants, beetles, butterflies and flies are all insects.
I've got some sort of insect bite on my leg.
There are a lot of butterflies in the park, and they are beautiful insects.
having no confidence in yourself and what you can do
a shy, insecure teenager
People felt insecure and nervous, their morale went down.
not safe or protected
Many of our staff are worried because their jobs are insecure.
the state of not being confident or not feeling safe
We have to live with the insecurity of not knowing if we'll still have a job next week.
Many of us have experienced moments of insecurity when everything seems so big and new that you wonder if you can deal with all the pressure or whether you will eventually manage to adapt to the situation at hand.
not noticing or not caring about other people's feelings
an insensitive remark
He was completely insensitive to Maria's feelings.
This way of thinking is very important because a person who spends a lot of time alone can become self-centred and insensitive to others.
Two things that are inseparable are so closely connected that you cannot consider them separately.
Rossetti's work was inseparable from his life.
The memory and the experience you have of the object create a special bond between you and the object, and the bond makes you inseparable from the object because you are inseparable from the memory.
People who are inseparable are always together because they are such good friends.
The two girls got on very well and soon became inseparable.
We were inseparable pals playing that favourite game of ours day and night.
to put something into something else
Insert the coin in the slot.
You just insert the CD-ROM; the rest will happen automatically.
to add something to the middle of a document or piece of writing
He inserted a new paragraph.
In the future it will be possible to buy paintings via the internet. The prices will be inserted under each painting.
in or into a room, building, container, etc.
There were some keys inside the box.
I kept it inside the jewel box.
in less than a particular length of time
The doctor's promised to be here inside an hour.
You can reach two stations on the tube-line seven inside 10 minutes; in addition there are two bus-stops even closer.
in or into a room, building, container, etc.
I'm freezing, let's go back inside.
We can stay inside and play with the computer.
If you have a feeling inside, you have a feeling although you might not show it to other people.
She couldn't cope with the grief she felt inside.
They had to go to the vet more often but it wasn't hard for them because of the love that they felt inside.
in or on the part of something under its surface
He put the documents carefully in his inside pocket.
At first Chris didn't seem to recognize him, but as soon as he did, his hand reached into his inside pocket.
information that is only known by people who are part of an organization, group, etc.
I needed someone with inside knowledge to back up my story.
I'm pretty sure that getting in touch with the customs and lifestyle of another country will open a completely new horizon to the students and they'll be enchanted by the 'inside knowledge' they will be able to gain.
the inner part, space or side of something
Did you clean the inside of the car?
The hotel looked shabby from the street, but it was fine on the inside.
Anyway, after the show I felt hungry so I went to the restaurant but it was closed because they were having the inside altered.
If a piece of clothing is inside out, the part that is usually outside is on the inside.
She had her jumper on inside out.
to know everything about something
He knows the system inside out.
The participants got to know Britain inside out and they are happy with the knowledge they gained.
the ability to understand what something is really like, or an example of this
The book gives a fascinating insight into the world of art.
This new research provides many insights into customer behaviour.
Children sometimes show remarkable insight when it comes to adult problems.
Special courses were offered, which provided deep insights into fascinating topics - they were great fun.
not important or large enough to consider or worry about
insignificant differences
Second, the "sudden downpour of rain" you reported and which "ruined" the show was actually a short and insignificant one that only lasted a few minutes.
to demand that something must be done or that you must have a particular thing
The school insists on good behaviour from its students.
She insisted on seeing her lawyer.
Please go first - I insist!
But if they insist, you should listen to them because our parents love us and they want the best for us.
to say firmly that something is true
Greg still insists (that) he did nothing wrong.
Mrs McGillicuddy saw a woman being strangled on a train and, in spite of everybody seeming not to believe her, she insisted that she was right and, with her friend's help, proved it.
to the degree that
The story is based insofar as possible on notes made by Scott himself.
Consequently the cited statement is definitely true but understates its point insofar as it neglects any time horizon.
when you find it difficult to sleep
Many people suffer from insomnia.
If we take the example of the politicians, we will find that those who are honest are the ones who suffer from insomnia (caused by threats and worries) while the most corrupt ones are safe asleep.
to look at something or someone carefully in order to discover information, especially about their quality or condition
After the crash, both drivers got out and inspected their cars for damage.
She held the bank note up to the light and inspected it carefully.
I invite you to inspect our facilities so that you can persuade yourself about the lack of equipment.
an official visit to a building or organization to check that everything is correct and legal
Fire officers carried out an inspection of the building.
The location was just fine but I suggest that you make an inspection. You would then see what I mean... The rooms were very dirty, there was no lift in the hotel and service was poor.
when you look at something carefully
On closer inspection, the painting was discovered to be a fake.
someone whose job is to check that things are being done correctly
a tax inspector
a school inspector/an inspector of schools
In the middle of the exam the inspector came in and asked me some questions for fun.
a police officer of middle rank
As you know I am a police inspector.
someone or something that gives you ideas for doing something
The golden autumn light provided the inspiration for the painting.
He went to church, perhaps seeking divine inspiration.
Working with children makes me happy and gives me inspiration.
to be so good that someone else admires you and is encouraged by your behaviour
The way she has dealt with her illness is an inspiration to us all.
She will always be an inspiration to me for her great strength, knowledge and courage.
a sudden good idea about what you should do
I've had an inspiration about Andy's birthday present.
to make someone feel that they want to do something and can do it
A drama teacher at school had inspired Sam to become an actor.
This has inspired me to finally write to you and ask if there is a possibility for me to join the painting course this spring.
to make someone have a particular feeling or reaction
He inspires great loyalty in his staff.
In today's world where everybody is selfish, it is hard to find a person to admire, a role model to be inspired by.
to give someone an idea for a book, play, painting, etc.
This television drama was inspired by a true story.
Most of her books are inspired by her life in Bulgaria and the adventures she had herself.
to put a computer program onto a computer so that the computer can use it
Andrew, can you help me install this software?
We have learned how to install components like a Soundboard or a CD-Rom drive.
to put a piece of equipment somewhere and make it ready for use
The plumber is coming tomorrow to install the new washing machine.
On my third day I helped them to install the sound system.
the process of putting new equipment into position
Do you have to pay extra for installation?
Last but not least, students asked for the installation of a beverage machine - that would be really convenient for them.
the process of putting a computer program onto a computer
the installation of new software
Personally, I believe that the installation of the Japanese Word version could considerably improve the efficiency of my work.
for example
In the electronics industry, for instance, 5000 jobs are being lost.
For instance, you can do mountain walks.
an example of a particular type of event, situation, or behaviour
There have been several instances of violence in the school.
There may be instances when the situation is exactly the opposite, but in this case, it was the way that my friend's sister was brought up that triumphed.
happening immediately, without any delay
This type of account offers you instant access to your money.
Contrary to expectations, the film was an instant success.
Therefore, the reception should be functional for students, that is, the students should get an instant answer when they have a question.
immediately
Both drivers were killed instantly.
To talk to a friend from another city or country instantly online is really nice and exciting.
in place of someone or something else
There's no coffee - would you like a cup of tea instead?
I don't want to use the dark blue paint. I am going to use the sky-blue paint instead.
in place of
You can go instead of me, if you want.
We should book the flights now instead of waiting until next week.
I had to admit that I would prefer to go with my friends and I decided to go with them instead of being with my parents.
the way someone naturally reacts or behaves, without having to think or learn about it
a mother's instinct to protect her children
It is at that point you realise that your desire of socialising and being accepted and respected by society is in fact stronger than that of following your own instincts.
an organization where people do a particular kind of scientific, educational or social work, or the buildings which it uses
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
With this jump she would raise money for a cancer institute in London.
a large and important organization, such as a university or bank
a medical/educational/financial institution
Oxford and Cambridge universities are internationally respected institutions.
Firstly, it's important to gain information about the institution where we want to work.
a building where people are sent so they can be looked after, for example a prison or a hospital
a young offenders' institution
I was working for a social institution that looks after poor children.
a custom that has existed for a long time
the institution of marriage
Nowadays, the institution of marriage seems to be coming back into fashion, and many youngsters who regrd themselves as mature experience wedlock at an increasingly early age.
to officially tell someone to do something
Staff are instructed not to use the telephones for personal calls.
When workers began to threaten to strike, about twenty days ago, people were instructed on how to tackle such an occurrence - you know, we are well organised and like to have emergency plans for any danger.
to teach someone about something
She is there to instruct people in the safe use of the gym equipment.
He instructed her in Chinese boxing, pretending that she was a male, and she spent five years of her childhood performing hard exercises, while Mui was playing with other girls.
information that explains how to do or use something
You obviously didn't read the instructions properly.
They need simple/clear instructions on what to do next.
Please read these instructions.
the activity of teaching or training someone, or the information you are being taught
religious instruction
Notwithstanding, he shared not only his happiness, but also his money, contributing to the formation of an institution that has helped many children and adolescents from lower classes, by providing a wide range of sports activities coupled with educational instruction.
something that someone tells you to do
The police who broke into the house were only acting on/under instructions.
He gave me strict instructions to get there by eight.
I have given strict instructions to Mr. Jones that expenditures are to be at a minimum, and that the parameters defined in our budget must be strictly adhered to.
someone who teaches a particular sport or activity
a driving instructor
There are professional instructors working in this club.
an object that is used for playing music, such as a piano, guitar or drum
They all brought musical instruments with them.
Which instrument do you play?
I play two instruments, so I can help you with the concert, playing guitar or keyboard.
a tool that is used for doing something
scientific instruments
You can also see Roman medical instruments and tools, for example a pioneer axe and different knives.
someone or something that is used for achieving something
The Internet is a very powerful instrument of communication.
This mechanical dog, harmless when not powered, is an instrument of repression and terror.
not enough
insufficient information
Her income is insufficient to support a family.
In contrast to your brochure, we did not have any special entertainment at the hotel and the dinner was insufficient in terms of not only its quality but also the quantity.
a rude and offensive remark or action
They were shouting insults at each other.
Joko's mother would hurl insults at the poor old man, calling him sick and hoping that he'd die soon.
to make someone's bad situation worse by doing something else to upset them
To add insult to injury, we had to pay for the damage!
To add insult to injury, such an approach often turns out to be counterproductive.
to say or do something to someone that is rude and offensive
How dare you insult me in front of my friends!
After all, in insulting the performers you insult their fans...
an agreement in which you pay a company money and they pay your costs if you have an accident, injury, etc.
life/health/car/travel insurance
I'll need to take out extra car insurance for another driver.
The insurance doesn't cover you for household items.
Lastly, could you please tell me what kind of clothes I should prepare and whether I have to buy insurance myself?
not damaged or destroyed
Many of the old buildings are still intact.
I am fortunate that my grandmother kept it intact in her attic until I discovered it two years ago.
necessary and important as part of something
The Internet has become an integral part of modern life.
Over the last few years, computers have become an integral part of our lives.
to become part of a group or society, or to help someone do this
After a few weeks of training he was fully integrated into the team.
I am a determined, spontaneous person and I have the ability to integrate well.
when things or people are mixed, joined or combined
cultural integration
This may be explained by the increasing number of exchanges in the European Union, and the stronger economic integration of European Countries.
honesty and the ability to do or know what is morally right
a woman of great integrity
This growing shopping mania is also said to create an increasingly materialistic society, hence, our children grow up forgetting the basic values of life - simplicity, integrity, humility and plain hard work.
the ability to learn and understand something, and to form ideas, judgments, and opinions about what you have learned
His energy and intellect are respected by many people.
When I am alone, or in "qualified" company, I may listen to music of a sort that appeals to my intellect as much as to my emotions.
relating to your ability to think and to understand things, especially complicated ideas
intellectual and physical development
I like detective stories and romances - nothing too intellectual.
First of all, I don't think your programme needs any improvement: in my opinion, your selection of films is already very satisfying because it includes both spectacular Hollywood movies and intellectual films.
interested in learning and in thinking about complicated ideas
She's very intellectual.
He made a good impression on her from the beginning, dressed in a dark blue evening suit, with a patterned bow tie, glimmering leather shoes and flashing spectacles that made him look very intellectual.
someone who enjoys studying and thinking about complicated ideas
She was a real intellectual.
As an intellectual and thinker (the glasses Piggy wears stand for these attributes), he is admired by Ralph, the chief.
in a way that relates to your ability to think and to understand things
She's hoping to find a job which is more demanding intellectually.
Some people complain that they do not have enough time to develop intellectually when they are in their 20s or 30s because they have to take care of their small children.
the ability to learn, understand and think about things
an intelligence test
a child of high/average/low intelligence
It's the intelligence of her writing that impresses me.
The dominant species among animals are pigs with their superior intelligence.
showing intelligence, or able to learn and understand things easily
a highly intelligent young man
an intelligent remark
Helen had a few intelligent things to say on the subject.
I've met my English teacher - she's very friendly and, I think, very intelligent.
to have as a plan or purpose
We intend to go to Australia next year.
Somehow I offended him, which wasn't what I'd intended.
I don't think she intended me to hear the remark.
It was intended as a compliment, honestly!
I intend to invite many friends who were in the same university, but nobody knows this news, so I want to surprise them.
to be made, designed, or provided for a particular person or purpose
The book is intended for anyone who wants to learn more about the Internet.
The course is intended for intermediate-level students.
The course is intended for business people who don't have English as their mother toungue.
extreme or very strong
intense heat/pain
Most of the rooms we stayed in did not have air-conditioning, which caused many sleepless nights for the majority of us due to the intense heat.
Intense people are very serious, and usually have strong emotions or opinions.
He's always been very intense.
I admire people with heart and soul, with that real charisma which can only blossom in highly intelligent and spiritual people - this is what we call 'intense personality'.
extremely
Her book is intensely personal.
Finally it was settled: they were both fertile; still able to have the child they had longed for so intensely.
with strong, serious emotions
She stared at me intensely.
She caressed the frame with great tenderness and, after looking intensely at the picture, embraced it passionately.
to become greater, more serious, or more extreme, or to make something do this
The fighting has intensified in the last two weeks.
This feeling is intensified when the relationship between Jack and Ralph develops to antagonism.
the quality of being felt strongly or having a very strong effect
the intensity of the blaze
As soon as a ray of light reaches the inside of the seashell, it sparkles with an intensity that nearly hurts your eye.
involving a lot of effort or activity in a short period of time
two weeks of intensive training
an intensive course in English
Intensive bombing had reduced the city to rubble.
I am 23 years old and speak English fluently due to my intensive study of the language.
in way that involves a lot of work in a short period of time
I spent three weeks working intensively on my thesis.
The canteen gets very busy and noisy at lunchtimes, but we all enjoy chatting to our friend after intensively studying in the classes.
when you want and plan to do something
It had not been his intent to hurt anyone.
Perhaps I sound a bit critical but that is not my intent.
in all the most important ways
To all intents and purposes, the project was a disaster.
To all intents and purposes, the qualities needed to achieve success are based on the same ideas.
to be determined to do or achieve something
She seems intent on winning this year's tennis tournament.
Why are the government so intent on solving this problem, why is it so important?
something that you want and plan to do
It wasn't my intention to exclude her from the list - I just forgot her.
I've no intention of changing my plans just to fit in with his.
He's full of good intentions, but he never does anything about them!
I was very pleased to hear from your club, because it was always my intention to join such a group and make music with other people.
to talk and do things with other people
At school, teachers said he interacted well with other students.
People say that when you use a computer you get addicted and don't interact with people.
the activity of talking and doing things with other people, or the way you do this
Our work involves a lot of interaction with the customers.
The interaction between the different groups in the Big Brother house is also very entertaining.
Interactive computer games, programs, etc. involve the user by reacting to the way they use them.
an interactive game
This is an interactive museum where children can actively manipulate the exhibits.
In addition, you can play with several interactive games and learn about the rules of the Olympic Games.
involving communication between people
interactive teaching methods
Our special special temporary membership offer is just right for people who want to enjoy their holidays in a more social and interactive way.
the feeling of wanting to give your attention to something or of wanting to discover more about it
I've always had an interest in astronomy.
He never seems to show any interest in his children.
Unfortunately, I lost interest half way through the film.
She takes more of an interest in politics these days.
Just out of interest, how old is your wife?
Well, really I don't have much interest in clothes.
something that you enjoy doing, studying or experiencing
On his form he lists his interests as cycling, the cinema and cooking.
In your next letter tell me about your hobbies and interests.
the quality that makes you think that something is interesting
Would this book be of any interest to you?
We visited the Eiffel Tower and lots of other places of interest.
money which is charged by a bank or other financial organization for borrowing money
Interest charges on an overdraft are usually quite high.
Extremely high interest rates and high unemployment were a fatal combination for many families.
money that you earn from keeping your money in an account in a bank or other financial organization
You should put the money in a savings account where it will earn interest.
to help someone and give them an advantage
It may not be in your interests to change jobs so soon.
It is in my interests to meet new people and I find it easy to go and talk to people I do not know.
in order to achieve a particular situation or quality
In the interest of safety, passengers are advised to wear their seat belts at all times.
First of all, do make sure that the front door is always locked. In the interests of everybody's security, it is essential to remember this.
something that gives someone or something an advantage
A union looks after the interests of its members.
I realize that you are trying to serve your customers the best way you can, but you might want to consider the interests of the people who live in this area.
a situation where someone cannot make fair decisions because they are influenced by something
She resigned from the committee because of a conflict of interest.
It could become a conflict of interest, but he never lets it.
If someone or something interests you, you want to give them your attention and discover more about them.
Sport has never really interested me.
Fortunately I saw an advertisement for a job in the local newspaper that might interest you.
wanting to give your attention to something and discover more about it
He didn't seem very interested in what I was saying.
Sara's at that age where she's starting to get interested in boys.
I'd be interested to hear more about your work.
"Really?" he said, with an interested look on his face.
Yes, I'd be very interested in knowing more about the services your firm offers.
I'm very interested in sports.
Someone or something that is interesting keeps your attention because they are unusual, exciting, or have a lot of ideas.
She's quite an interesting woman.
She's got some very interesting things to say on the subject.
It is always interesting to hear other people's point of view.
I like reading interesting books in the Library.
used to introduce information that you think is surprising and interesting
Interestingly, he never actually said that he was innocent.
Russians today prefer fast food due to a rapid lifestyle. Interestingly, this refers only to lunch time; about 80% of Russians will prefer eating a traditional Russian meal for dinner.
to try to control or become involved in a situation, in a way that is annoying
I know he's worried about us, but I wish he wouldn't interfere.
You shouldn't interfere in other people's business.
I would like to stress that very often famous people become reserved, bad-tempered and angry with the world for interfering in their lives.
to prevent something from working effectively or from developing successfully
I try not to let my dancing classes interfere with my schoolwork.
We realise this activity would interfere with our visit to the Science Museum, but we, in exchange, would gladly give up our free time on Wednesday to perform the programme completely.
when someone tries to interfere in a situation
There have been claims of too much political interference in education.
The famous have all their gestures watched and judged. How can anyone live with so much interference?
noise or other electronic signals that stop you from getting good pictures or sound on a television or radio
The storm caused a lot of interference.
Furthermore, my husband is quite angry because as the aircrafts fly so low, they touch the antenna causing an interference either on the television or on the radio.
temporary and intended to be used or accepted until something permanent exists
an interim solution
an interim government
An interim government was set up for the period before the country's first free election.
the inside part of something
The estate agent had pictures of the house from the outside but none of its interior.
The car's interior is very impressive - wonderful leather seats and a wooden dashboard.
The interior is quite modern and clean.
between the highest and lowest levels of knowledge or skill
There are three levels of difficulty in this game: low, intermediate and high.
This novel is too difficult for intermediate students of English.
My level is intermediate.
existing or happening inside a person, object, organization, place or country
He sustained injuries to his arms, legs and several internal organs.
The bank conducted its own internal investigation into the robbery.
The government warned its neighbours not to interfere in its internal affairs.
The letter box for internal post should be hung on the wall, so that pupils could make any suggestions about the school, or even complaints, directly to reception.
inside a person, object, organization, place or country
This medicine is for external use only and should not be taken internally.
I am actually very interested in taking the course, because recently I have changed my job and one of my functions is to create a page on the intranet to share information about the company internally.
relating to or involving two or more countries
international politics
an international team of scientists
Go to the international museum, it's wonderful.
in many countries
Her internationally acclaimed novel has won several literary prizes.
This film was directed by Yasujino-Ozo, who is internationally famous, although his film is very Japanese.
to change what someone has said into a different language
We had to ask the guide to interpret for us.
My boss decided it was high time I tried to interpret for him outside our office.
to decide what the intended meaning of something is
It's difficult to interpret these statistics without knowing how they were obtained.
A jury should not interpret the silence of a defendant as a sign of guilt.
Musicians try to interpret it, but admittedly they will never find the whole meaning of it.
an explanation or opinion of what something means
traditional interpretations of the Latin text
Yet this raises the question of the actual effect travel has on our understanding and interpretation of the world outside our country, as well as on the idea we have of our country itself.
the way someone performs a particular play, piece of music, etc.
a beautiful interpretation of Swan Lake
Every time I think of this memorable day, I wish I could thank my host-family over and over again since then - little did I know that I would be accepted at Paris' Conservatory a few months later, thanks to my interpretation of Mozart's concerto!
to stop someone while they are talking or doing something, by saying or doing something yourself
She tried to explain what had happened but he kept interrupting her.
I wish you'd stop interrupting.
Her thoughts were interrupted by Ben, who asked if she wanted to go for a walk with him.
to stop something from happening for a short period
We had to interrupt our trip when we heard John's mother was ill.
Unfortunately, I am studying at university and I can't afford to interrupt my studies.
when an action or activity is interrupted, or something that interrupts someone or something
There were so many interruptions, I couldn't get on with my work.
I stayed two or three minutes in the darkness thinking that it was only a brief interruption, but it was not the case.
a short period of time between the parts of a play, performance, etc.
The show "Zorro" had only one interval of 20 minutes.
During the interval I wanted to drink coffee in the theatre restaurant, but it was closed.
a period of time between two actions, activities, or events
After an interval of three days, the peace talks resumed.
When we adopt this perspective, we witness history becoming enmeshed with our present and future, as all cyclical events repeat themselves at regular intervals.
to become involved in a situation in order to try to stop a fight, argument, problem, etc.
Government officials refused to intervene in the recent disputes.
Harris intervened to stop the attack.
While an old cynic like Bismarck might not have approved of intervening in the Balkans, even he should see the point of this.
when someone intervenes, especially to influence what happens
Without medical intervention, the child would have died.
I write to seek your intervention in a matter that has seriously impacted on the reputation of your retail business.
a meeting in which someone asks you questions to see if you are suitable for a job or course
a job interview
I had an interview for a job with a publishing firm.
I have to go to a job interview which I'm looking forward to.
a meeting in which someone is asked questions about themselves for a newspaper article, television show, etc
an exclusive interview with Paul Simon
In a television interview last night she denied she had any intention of resigning.
I especially enjoyed the Roberto Carlos interview, did you know he used to be a striker?
to ask someone questions in an interview
We've had 200 applicants for the job, but we only plan to interview about 20 of them.
Who's the most famous person you've ever interviewed on TV?
We had to interview our partner and to present him to the class.
private and personal
intimate details of her family life
intimate conversations
Finally, we have to take into consideration that cultural and educational development opens the path for learning and becoming conscious of our intimate feelings and personality and helps us to become better people.
having a special relationship with someone who you like or love very much
an intimate friend
Finally, before 5 am the couple leaves the party (in desperate need of rest) and so do their intimate friends and family.
If a place or event is intimate, it is small in a way that feels comfortable or private.
an intimate hotel
The dining room is small and intimate, allowing a relaxed and personal atmosphere, which is highlighted by the soft, Indian background music and the dimmed lights.
when you know all of the facts about something or about how it works
He has an intimate knowledge of the area.
The fact that Sinclair spends most of his weekends hiking is easily understood through his intimate knowledge of wilderness lore, of which tidbits pop up now and then in the text.
towards the inside or middle of something
He's gone into a shop across the road.
Shall we go into the garden?
Stop running around and get into bed!
I will sweep the floor and clean around my bed, and put the waste into the bin.
used to show when a person or thing changes from one form or condition to another
Peel the cucumber and chop it into small cubes.
Her novels have been translated into nineteen languages.
We're planning to turn the smallest bedroom into an office.
I like it very much because now I can convert any language into Bengali.
moving towards something or someone and hitting them
He's always walking into things when he hasn't got his glasses on.
Then I bumped into a man... What a surprise! It was Thom Yorke.
in the direction of something or someone
She was looking straight into his eyes.
I turned around and looked into the eyes of my favourite football player Timo Hildebrand.
to be very interested in something
Will's really into jazz.
I think I'm going to buy the 'Grind' movie because it's about skateboarding and you know I'm really into skateboarding.
as well as everything else
Caffeine has no good effects on health and is mildly addictive into the bargain.
The Open Air Museum is unique, with vast numbers of old houses; you can roam there for days and receive history lessons into the bargain.
too bad or unpleasant to deal with or accept
an intolerable situation
The constant fighting made life at home intolerable.
The situation has become absolutely intolerable.
when someone is intolerant
religious intolerance
The process of mutual understanding that emerges from this contact can help solve one of the greatest problems facing mankind, the ethnic, racial or religious intolerance that plagues different parts of the world.
refusing to accept any opinions, beliefs, customs, etc., that are different from your own
She can be very intolerant of other people's opinions.
Right now, tolerance and understanding come very naturally to me, in contrast with the narrow-minded, intolerant attitude I had to share when I had hardly ever gone beyond the limits of my home town.
An intransitive verb does not have an object.
In the sentence 'I tried to persuade him, but he wouldn't come', 'come' is an intransitive verb.
In the Wordlist, verbs which are intransitive are marked [I].
very interesting
an intriguing story
Only a minority of our citizens make regular use of the library, either by enjoying a quiet few minutes to scour the bookshelves for an intriguing story to keep them going through the next rainy weekend or by reading one of the numerous newspapers on display.
An intrinsic quality or thing forms part of the basic character of something or someone.
Drama is an intrinsic part of the school's curriculum.
Working is an intrinsic part of human nature, without which life may be unthinkable for some of us.
to tell someone another person's name the first time that they meet
I'd like to introduce my younger son, Mark.
Have you two been introduced (to each other)?
We were introduced to each other and we talked about our home countries.
to make something exist, happen or be used for the first time
The smaller 10 pence coin was introduced in 1992.
We have introduced a new training schedule for employees.
Mr. Dixon, you and your staff have already introduced a number of alterations that have improved the interior of the building.
to tell an audience who is going to speak to them or perform for them
I'd like to introduce Rachel Elliott who is our speaker this evening.
the action of telling someone another person's name the first time that they meet
You'll have to do/make the introductions - I don't know everyone's name.
As we didn't know each other, the meeting started with the introduction of everybody.
the opening text of a book, speech, article, etc.
Read the introduction to the article and decide what it will be about.
The book has an introduction by Antonia Byatt.
Report introduction: The purpose to this report is to give suggestions of how to make the reception area more welcoming for everyone.
when you make something exist, happen or be used for the first time
The introduction of new working practices has dramatically improved productivity.
Within a few years of their introduction, CDs were outselling vinyl records.
With the introduction of the computer, we can now access the Internet to communicate with our relatives and friends living abroad.
a book or course which provides basic knowledge about a subject
an introduction to psychology
Please send me some information about your club and tell me about courses like "an introduction to flying".
the first time someone experiences something
It was our first introduction to great poetry.
In 1998 it was the first introduction to home internet access and as we can see from the chart, less than 10% of people had one at home.
someone who is quiet and shy and prefers to be alone
He's quite an introvert.
As an introvert, he had some problems with airing his opinions but when it came to competing with others he was the best.
to become involved in a situation which people want to be private
I don't mean to intrude, but are you okay?
They should not have intruded on the family's grief.
He was fed up with the media intruding into his life.
The fact is that raising a child is a strictly personal matter and also a demanding task nowadays and no one can intrude on a family's privacy, to influence its decision.
someone who enters a place where they are not allowed to be, often to commit a crime
I heard intruders at the back of the house.
The Police Department did accept that the Jouzalez house was not robbed, but only showed signs of mess and disorder, as if the intruders were looking for something specific, for a certain document.
someone who goes to a place or becomes involved in a situation where others do not want them
I felt like an intruder at their family meal.
Hooper considered the newcomer to be an intruder, to be subtly persecuted.
when someone becomes involved in a situation which people want to be private
She could not bear the intrusion into her private life.
Agatha lay underneath her covers dreading the moment when some intrusion might force her to leave the sanctuary of her four-poster bed.
the feeling that you know something without being able to explain why
Her approach to childcare is based on intuition.
But Roger had repeatedly told Lindsay that he was innocent, and her intuition told her that he wasn't lying.
to enter a country by force in order to take control of it
Concentrations of troops near the border look set to invade within the next few days.
Hitler invaded France.
to enter a place in large numbers
Every summer the town is invaded by tourists.
As tourists invade us in large hoards, the menace of destroying the green values of our land appears.
to become involved in someone's private life when they do not want you to
They were fed up with journalists invading their privacy.
He would never invade our privacy or force us to talk about our problems.
to become a part of someone's life without them asking for or wanting the involvement
Computers are invading our lives.
The biggest one, the computer, has invaded our life and changed the whole rhythm.
extremely useful
Her contacts in government proved invaluable to the company.
16 June, 2004 Dear Mr. Alcott, I would like to thank you for the organisation of the event which allowed me to obtain invaluable information on up-to-date labour market trends and career opportunities.
always
The train is invariably packed.
Nevertheless, there is invariably an exception to the rule.
when an army enters a country by force in order to take control of it
They were planning to mount an invasion of the north of the country.
Then, we went to the North of Denmark to see what remains of the Viking invasions.
becoming involved in someone's private life when they do not want you to
These phone calls to my home are an invasion of my privacy.
when people enter a place in large numbers
Every year, there is an invasion of tourists.
The invasion of tourists seems to take away some of the place's privacy and it can even destroy its usually peaceful environment.
to design or create something which has never existed before
The first safety razor was invented by company founder King C. Gillette in 1903.
Lots of different and important things were invented during the 20th century, but I believe that the most important one is the computer.
to think of a story or explanation in order to deceive someone
But I didn't invent the story - everything I told you is true.
We knew that our parents wouldn't let us travel alone so we had to invent a story to avoid them realizing what happened.
something which has been designed or created for the first time, or the act of creating or designing something
The world changed rapidly after the invention of the telephone.
a most amazing invention
I think that the television is one of the most amazing inventions ever.
someone who designs and makes new things
He was the inventor of the vacuum cleaner.
The mobile phone is also very important these days, thanks to Lars Magnus Ericsson, who was the inventor of mobile phones.
the " " punctuation marks that are put around a word or phrase to show that someone else has written or said it
Direct speech should be shown in inverted commas.
to give money to a bank, business, etc., or buy something, because you hope to get a profit
The institute will invest 5 million in the project.
He's not certain whether to invest in the real estate market.
However, you could invest the extra money in the infrastructure.
to use a lot of time, effort, or emotions because you want to succeed
You have all invested significant amounts of time and energy in making this project the success that it is.
So, investing a bit of time and care on yourself might be the reason for your 90th birthday party!
to try to discover all the facts about something, especially a crime or accident
Police are investigating allegations of corruption involving senior executives.
We are of course investigating how an error like this could have occurred.
John, who was the husband of Julia, went to his office and started investigating the kidnapping.
when officials try to discover all the facts about something, especially a crime or an accident
to carry out/hold an investigation
An investigation has been under way for several days into the disappearance of a thirteen-year-old boy.
a full/thorough investigation of the incident
Currently, the individuals who might have caused the accident are subject to/under investigation.
After a month-long investigation of the environment, I found we still don't do enough to protect the environment.
a person whose job is to examine a crime, accident, etc. in order to discover the truth
Investigators have studied the possible effects of contamination.
a private investigator
My name is Jacques Martinov, and I am a private investigator.
the money that you put in a bank, business, etc. in order to make a profit, or the act of doing this
Stocks are regarded as good long-term investments.
The account requires a minimum investment of $1000.
I would like to join one of your teams to learn much more about my hobby: investments in shares.
something that you do or have, in order to have more in the future
Going to college is an investment in the future.
There's been a significant investment of time and energy in order to make the project a success.
Of course I was able to purchase a second-hand one but I thought that it was a good investment to have a new computer provided with up-to-date software.
a person who puts money into a bank, business, etc. in order to make a profit
A New York investor offered to acquire the company's shares for $13 each.
Small investors are hoping that the markets will improve.
This should be done by lowering taxes and preparing other incentives for potential investors.
impossible to see
The aircraft is designed to be invisible to radar.
The house was invisible from the road.
At that moment I really wished I could disappear or become invisible!
when someone invites you to do something or go somewhere
Thanks for the invitation to your birthday party.
I'm happy to accept your invitation.
Thank you for your invitation.
something that is likely to cause a particular result, especially a bad one
It is an invitation to violence.
This was hard to resist for computer programmers who understood it as an invitation to try and fool the examiner with a cunning computer programme.
to ask someone to come to a social event or to spend time with you socially
We're invited to Lola's party.
Her family invited me to stay with them for a few weeks.
I'm really happy you invited me for dinner.
to formally ask someone to do something
I was invited to appear on television.
We invite your newspaper to reconsider its position, hoping that the council will think about our proposals.
to do something that is likely to cause a particular reaction or result, especially a bad one
Unconventional ideas often invite attack/criticism.
If a situation or activity involves something, that thing is a necessary part of it.
The trips often involve a lot of walking.
The course involves a huge amount of reading.
There are a lot of risks involved.
It is a competition for schools and it involves many kinds of sport.
to affect or include someone or something in an activity
The second accident involved two cars and a lorry.
It would be difficult not to involve the child's father in the arrangements.
She had written me to tell me that our friends Todd and Alice had died in an strange accident that involved a vacuum cleaner.
to make someone be part of an activity or process
I prefer teaching methods that actively involve students in learning.
Trying to involve children and young people in general, interactive activities could be really successful.
to do things and be part of an activity or event
How did you get involved in acting?
She's been involved with animal rights for many years.
According to your letter, you want to encourage more people to get involved in the swimming club and the chess club.
when someone or something is involved in an activity or event
The team's continued involvement in the competition is uncertain.
He denies any involvement in the attack.
By reading we get a sort of personal involvement with the characters, it's as if it was our own story.
a dark grey metal used to make steel and found in very small amounts in blood and food
an iron bar
Iron rusts easily.
Liver is a particularly rich source of iron.
It wasn't very expensive because it was made of iron without any decoration, but it was important because she gave it to me before she died.
a piece of electrical equipment that you use for making clothes flat and smooth
a steam iron
a travel iron
For example, are there any people who want to buy an iron at midnight?
to make clothes flat and smooth using an iron
I need to iron a shirt to wear tomorrow.
I like wearing jeans because they are very comfortable, and are also easy to wash and to iron.
An ironic situation is strange because it is the opposite of what you would expect.
It's ironic that she was hurt by the very person she's trying to help.
As I used my stealth to move through the shadows, I thought it ironic that the rich man's expensive and probably imported carpets should assist me in keeping quiet.
used to emphasize that a situation is strange because it is the opposite of what you expected
Ironically, the only good book on this subject has gone out of print.
Either way, food is a big industry and a vital contributor to our culture, but ironically, food is also the biggest problem in the world.
the activity of making clothes flat and smooth, using an iron
I must do some ironing tonight.
In the near future, everything will be done by computers and machines (washing-up, hoovering, ironing, gardening, cooking, etc.)
a situation that is strange because it is the opposite of what you expected
The irony is that now he's retired, he's busier than ever.
The irony of all this is the fact that she lives in the same house with Kingshaw and Hooper and she keeps being unable to notice what is really going on till the very end.
a type of humour in which people say the opposite of what they really mean
There is a lot of irony in his writing.
His strength lies in drawing exact pictures of the human mind by using extraordinary metaphors and idioms and describing our society with his never-ending tone of sarcasm and irony.
Irrational feelings and actions are based on your emotions and not on good reasons.
irrational behaviour
an irrational fear of flying
It was an irrational fear, but try to explain this to a five-year-old girl who constantly dreamt about vampire dolls killing her while she was unable to move!
In grammar, an irregular verb, noun, adjective, etc. does not obey the usual rules for words in the language.
a table of irregular verbs
That is the pattern for most verbs, but some verbs are irregular and behave differently.
Irregular actions or events happen with a different amount of time between each one.
They met at irregular intervals.
To make matters worse, the meal times are irregular, so as a result I am skinny.
not smooth or straight, or having parts that are different sizes
an irregular coastline
In my hurry, I never saw the irregular floor and I fell over!
extremely attractive and impossible not to like or want
an irresistible smile
For instance, a perfume might make men irresistible to women, or vice versa.
too powerful to control or ignore
irresistible pressure
an irresistible desire to run away
From time to time we do feel an irresistible desire to get possession of something that is not a must. We are so tempted that we buy it.
used to say that something does not affect a situation
Everyone should be treated equally, irrespective of skin colour.
He demonstrated that irrespective of the political circumstances, art will always go on, it cannot be subdued.
not thinking about the possible bad results of what you are doing
an irresponsible attitude
irresponsible behaviour
Of course cinemas and schools do not allow people to use mobile phones inside the buildings, but the existence of irresponsible people who do not respect the prohibitions makes everything worse.
Something that is irreversible cannot be changed back to how it was before.
Smoking has caused irreversible damage to his lungs.
It is important to remember that everything done excessively can have irreversible consequences!
becoming annoyed very easily
Jack's been irritable all day.
Lord Trimingham remains calm throughout the story whereas Ted Burgess seems quite irritable and impulsive.
to annoy someone
His comments really irritated me.
Children get hyperactive and irritate other passengers.
annoyed
Ben began to get increasingly irritated by/with her questions.
Tom noticed that she was irritated about something.
making you feel annoyed
an irritating habit
John was absolutely fed up with Bill's irritating behaviour.
the feeling of being annoyed, or something that makes you annoyed
That kind of behaviour is sure to cause irritation.
Traffic noise is one of the irritations of living here.
Most of the time, he found himself restless and to overcome the boredom and his irritation, he would go to the village pub and listen to the musicians and drink with them.
a piece of land completely surrounded by water
a desert island
a Pacific island
They live on the large Japanese island of Hokkaido.
I'm on the island of Aruba.
a long way from other places
an isolated village in the mountains
You might get lost in an isolated region without anyone to help you.
alone and not having help or support from other people
Kazuo felt very isolated at his new school.
Before you even know it, you'll feel isolated and alone because other people will have forgotten about you.
a case/event/example, etc. that happens only once
This robbery was not an isolated incident.
This is just an isolated example among an endless list.
the state of being separate from other people, places, or things
the country's economic isolation from the rest of the world
Due to the isolation, the country had to feed itself with everything which was needed.
alone, or separately from other people, places, or things
These poems cannot be considered in isolation.
In conclusion, it is my opinion that the problem of parking space cannot be solved in isolation.
a feeling of being lonely
I had this awful sense of isolation.
Unemployment can lead to isolation.
a subject or problem which people are thinking and talking about
environmental/moral/personal issues
As employers we need to be seen to be addressing these issues sympathetically.
You're a student so this should be a very important issue for you.
the newspaper, magazine, etc. that is produced on a particular day/week/month
Have you seen the latest issue of Computer World?
Having seen your advertisement in the 4th issue of Asahi News, I hasten to write this letter.
to disagree with what someone says or writes
I would take issue with you on that.
On behalf of the staff who worked for this event, I would like to take issue with the report's inaccuracies and unfair remarks.
most important in what is being discussed
The point at issue is what is best for the child.
I wouldn't like to fall into the trap of generalizing the matter at issue, but I believe there are two ways of travelling.
to officially say something or give someone something
The office will be issuing permits on Tuesday and Thursday mornings.
The school issued a statement about its plans to the press./The school issued the press with a statement about its plans.
Finally, the doctors issued an ultimatum.
ABBREVIATION FOR information technology: the use of computers and other electronic equipment to store and send information
He's a project manager for a large IT company.
I want to study I.T. because it is very useful.
used to refer to the thing, situation, or idea that has already been talked about
"Where's my pen?" "You left it by the phone."
The argument was upsetting for us all - I don't want to talk about it.
Children who stay away from school do it for different reasons.
This is a very beautiful place and I like it.
used as the subject or object of a verb to represent a phrase at the end of the sentence
I liked it in Scotland.
It's unlikely that she'll arrive on time.
It costs less if you travel at the weekend.
It's a nice place.
used to talk about the time, date, weather or distances
What time is it?
It was October, so it was quite cold.
It rained all day.
It rained and rained and rained and it really didn't want to stop raining.
used as the subject of verbs such as 'seem', 'appear' and 'look'
It seemed unfair to leave her at home.
It seemed fantastic but we knew our parents would never agree.
used to say the name of a person or thing when the person you are speaking to does not know
It's your Dad on the phone.
used to emphasize one part of a sentence
It's the children I'm concerned about, not me.
If a part of your body itches, it feels uncomfortable and you want to rub it with your nails.
Woollen sweaters make my arms itch.
On the other hand I loathe jumpers since they make me itch, so I buy them once in a blue moon!
to want to do something very much
You could tell that they were itching to leave.
The difference between these two kinds of people lies exactly there: the package-tourist is itching to go back home as soon as he sets off whereas the traveller may never go back home.
a single thing in a set or on a list
the last item on the list
The restaurant has a long menu of about 50 items.
Several items of clothing lay on the floor.
I have tasted all the items in that restaurant.
a piece of news on television or radio, or in a newspaper
a small item on the back page of the local newspaper
Last week, in the "East London Journal", I read an item about your opening an Investor Club.
a list of places that you plan to visit on a journey
The President's itinerary includes visits to Boston and New York.
Finally, although the itinerary involved a visit to St. Andrews, for some unknown reasons we never went there and I was really disappointed.
belonging to or relating to something that has already been mentioned
The dog hurt its paw.
Their house has its own swimming pool.
The company increased its profits.
I prefer the second option - its advantages are simplicity and cheapness.
When you touch it, a light bulb appears on its screen.
the reflexive form of the pronoun 'it'
The cat licked itself all over.
alone or without help
The dog was in the house by itself for several days.
The dog managed to drag the box into the room by itself.
I didn't take any medicine for the cough - it just got better itself.
If an animal is kept by itself, with no-one to keep it company, it gets lonely and very sad.
used to put emphasis on a word
The shop itself started 15 years ago but the mail order side of the business is new.
There are lots of trees and bushes, but the city itself is quite ugly.
used emphasize that something is true of one particular thing but that other things may have to be considered
The plan wasn't illegal in itself but it would lead to some doubtful practices.
To begin with, a car, in my opinion, can't be harmful in itself.
a short coat
a leather/denim jacket
The keys are in my jacket pocket.
I need to buy a jacket.
a place where criminals are kept as a punishment
the country's overcrowded jails
a 13-year jail sentence/term
He was sent to jail for five years.
The financier was released from jail last week.
They spent ten years in jail for fraud.
Otherwise, they will throw him in jail for his bad past.
a sweet food made with fruit and sugar that you can put on bread
strawberry/raspberry jam
a jar of apricot jam
First we can eat some snacks: cheese, jam, toast...
a line of cars, trucks, etc. that are moving slowly or not moving
We were stuck in a jam for hours.
On a bike, you don't have to wait if there is a jam or something like that.
something that is stuck in a machine or that prevents the parts of a machine from moving
The photocopier has a paper jam.
to get stuck or make something get stuck
The machine keeps jamming.
Dirt has jammed the engine.
I understand the request for a new printer could be considered expensive, but it would benefit the office in the long run by diminishing the waste of paper and toner due to the paper jamming the printer.
to fill a place completely
The streets were jammed with cars.
The whole area was jammed with fans waiting for the band to come on stage.
Our quiet roads will be jammed with cars coming from other towns, especially the Saturday morning.
the first month of the year, after December and before February
Her father died in January.
His birthday is January 25th.
We go skiing in Germany every January.
Are you free on 2nd January?
a glass container used for storing food
a jar of coffee/honey
a jam jar
I've already bought them a jar of "Dulce de leche", that I'm sure they will love.
words and phrases used by particular groups of people that are difficult for other people to understand
legal jargon
Although you communicate with your colleagues in the afternoon, if you only get 'jargon' there and see your friends from your own country every day without speaking in English, it certainly doesn't help you improve your ability.
the lower part of your face which moves when you open your mouth
a broken jaw
He has a strong/square jaw.
Some of Jem's features such as his curved nose, his cruel jaw or even his hands, made Mary think of Joss Merlyn.
a type of music first developed by African Americans, which often includes parts played without written music
Paul has a lot of jazz on his iPod.
I've been a fan of jazz ever since I was a teenager, when I used to go to clubs in Nottingham.
I like pop music and jazz.
upset and angry because someone you love seems interested in another person
a jealous husband/wife
Anna says she feels jealous every time another woman looks at her boyfriend.
The problem is that, a few months ago, when he had broken up with me, I wanted him to feel jealous, so I started meeting Fredo, a friend.
unhappy and angry because you want something that someone else has
He had always been very jealous of his brother's good looks.
Why had this man in his nightmare told him that one could be jealous of his success?
in a jealous way
She eyed Gwen's engagement ring jealously.
a feeling of unhappiness or anger because you want what someone else has or fear that someone will take what you have
He broke his brother's new bike in a fit of jealousy.
Jealousy can ruin relationships.
What is more, the most successful colleagues generated some jealousy and incomprehension in the others.
trousers made of denim, a strong cotton material, which are worn informally
jeans and a T-shirt
I never wear jeans for work.
Come to my house tomorrow wearing jeans and a white T-shirt.
an aircraft with a jet engine, which is able to fly very fast
a jet plane
a private jet
We flew to New York by jet.
After we went in his private jet to his mansion.
a valuable stone that is used to make jewellery or to decorate objects
She was wearing a large gold necklace set with jewels.
We opened it and we were left speechless as in the chest there were the most shiny jewels and coins we had ever seen.
objects made from gold, silver, and valuable stones that you wear for decoration
a jewellery box
a piece of gold/silver jewellery
They gave me a lot of sweets and presents like books, jewellery, and clothes.
the regular work that you do in order to earn money
a full-time/part-time/temporary/permanent job
a badly-paid/well-paid job
When she left college, she got a job as an editor in a publishing company.
She's applied for a job with an insurance company.
Hundreds of workers could lose their jobs.
I'm going to do a part-time job on Saturdays.
a particular piece of work
The builders are aiming to get the job done by the end of the month.
He spent the afternoon doing jobs around the house.
It will be a messy job so wear something old.
something that is your responsibility
She believed her job as a politician was to represent the views of her party and the people who voted for her.
I know it's not my job to tell you how to run your life, but I do think you've made a mistake.
One day, my boss said to me: "Serve tea every morning". I'm a computer operator. I'm not his wife. It is not my job.
to do something well/very well, etc.
She did a great job of organizing the event.
Dear Bill, I think you did a very good job writing this chapter.
without a job
How long have you been out of a job?
So, what is so terrible about being out of a job, you might ask yourself.
If it is a good job that something happened, it is lucky that it happened.
It's a good job that Jo was there to help you.
It's a good job that I didn't cry.
If something does the job, it is suitable for a particular purpose.
Here, this knife should do the job.
Allow them to bring home friends and therefore develop social skills. In my opinion, that should do the job.
to do sth badly/well, etc.
Paul's made a good job of painting the hall.
It's time my mother stopped worrying about me, after all, she's been preparing me all my life for this moment; it's finally time to see if she has made a good job of it.
to run slowly for exercise
I jog through the park every morning.
When you jog, you can feel your whole body moving.
when you jog
Let's go jogging.
You can stay in a hotel in Copacabana and go jogging in the morning.
to become a member of a club, group, or organization
I felt so unfit after Christmas that I decided to join a gym.
It's a great club. Why don't you join?
It will be great if you join the new art class.
to do something or go somewhere with someone
I don't have time for a drink now, but I'll join you later.
Why don't you ask your sister if she would like to join us for supper?
I'm going to Wandsworth Cinema with my friends tonight. Would you like to join us?
to fasten or connect things together
A bridge joins the two islands.
Join the two pieces together using strong glue.
The island is joined to the mainland by a road bridge.
If roads or rivers join, they meet at a particular point.
The A11 joins the M11 south of Cambridge.
The River Murray and the River Darling join east of Adelaide.
When two people or groups join forces, they act or work together.
She joined forces with her sister-in-law to set up a restaurant.
The second proposal is that we join forces with Green Peace in picketing the refinery, this of course is up to the individual members.
belonging to or shared between two or more people
a joint bank account
The project was a joint effort between the two schools.
The two Russian ice-skaters came joint second in the world championship.
Adrian has a joint honours degree in English and philosophy.
a place where something is sold, especially a restaurant or bar
a pizza joint
The following day a visit was scheduled to "a typical English restaurant" which turned out to be a hamburger joint.
a place in your body where two bones meet
the knee joint
Would you really like to have a job in which you would risk not being able to walk because of the damage to your joints?
in a shared way
The Channel Tunnel was jointly funded by the French and British.
Avesta is now jointly owned by Swedes and Englishmen after merging with British Steel.
something which someone says to make people laugh, usually a short story with a funny ending
Did I tell you the joke about the chicken crossing the road?
I hope Rob doesn't tell any of his dirty jokes when my mother's here.
Don't you get the joke?
In the first lesson, the teacher came in and told us a joke, and the most important thing was... the joke was funny!
to not be serious or not deserve respect
The investigation was a joke.
Talking about restaurants, your "typical English restaurant" was a joke.
to tell a joke
He seemed very relaxed, laughing and cracking jokes.
Many members will get the chance to show their talent and we will get to crack some jokes too!
to say funny things, or not be serious
They joked and laughed as they looked at the photos.
It's more serious than you think, so please don't joke about it.
I thought he was joking!
something you say to show that you are surprised by what someone has said, or do not believe it is true
"He spoke to me in French." "You're joking! Really?"
One television set in my house? You must be joking! We need four televisions!
a magazine containing articles about a particular subject
a medical journal
What I miss, however, in our library are the books and journals devoted to science.
a book in which you regularly write about what has happened to you
I kept a journal during that time.
He looked everywhere but he couldn't find his uncle's personal journal.
the work of collecting, writing and publishing news stories and articles in newspapers and magazines or broadcasting them on the radio and television
I did a postgraduate degree in journalism.
She told the leader of the band that she was studying journalism and that her dream was to write for Rolling Stone Magazine.
a person who writes news stories or articles for a newspaper or magazine or broadcasts them on radio or television
a freelance political journalist
She is a journalist on the local newspaper and we get along very well.
when you travel from one place to another
It's a two-hour train journey from York to London.
I love going on long journeys.
Did you have a good journey?
Have a safe journey!
The journey takes about half an hour from Paris.
great happiness
They were filled with joy when their first child was born.
She wept for joy when she was told that her husband was still alive.
Well, you should be bouncing up and down with joy (just kidding)!
something or someone that makes you feel very happy
Listening to music is one of his greatest joys.
the joys of parenthood
She's a joy to work with.
Take the train and experience the joy of travelling.
someone who decides which person or thing wins a competition
the Olympic judges
However, the Astro singing competition is different. The winner will be decided according to the marks given by the judge.
someone who controls a trial in court, decides how criminals should be punished, and makes decisions about legal matters
The judge ruled that they had acted correctly.
To the surprise of everyone in the village, the judge found her guilty but didn't send her to jail because he thought she should take care of Linda, who had no other relatives.
someone who is usually wrong/usually right, etc. when they judge something
a good judge of character
She is a very good judge of character and the institute has reared some very promising scientists.
to have or develop an opinion about something or someone, especially after thinking carefully
So far, he seems to be handling the job well, but it's really too soon to judge.
It's difficult to judge whether the new system really is an improvement.
The meeting was judged to have been a success.
I'm hopeless at judging distance(s).
It's very difficult to judge, because so many young people leave Poland and go to another country.
used to express the reasons why you have a particular opinion
Judging by what he said, I think it's very unlikely that he'll be able to support your application.
I didn't like San Diego so much - just judging by my first impression.
to officially decide who will be the winner of a competition
I've been asked to judge the art competition.
If you don't object, we would like to see you judging the competition and giving prizes to the winners.
to have a bad opinion of someone's behaviour, often because you think you are better than them
What gives you the right to judge people?
"I'm not judging you, dear", I whispered softly.
an opinion about someone or something that you decide on after thinking carefully
It proved difficult to come to/form/make a judgment about how well the school was performing.
Your judgment about the other performers is completely unfair: they were also very good.
the ability to make good decisions or to be right in your opinions
to have good/bad judgment
They should also develop analytical ability as well as good judgment.
a container with a handle used for pouring out liquids
a glass/plastic jug
a milk/water jug
The milk overflowed when I poured it into the jug.
to try to do several things at once, when it is difficult to have enough time
Many women have to juggle work and family.
Juggling with time and living the rat-race, I focused my life on my profession.
the liquid that comes from fruit or vegetables
orange/lemon/grapefruit/tomato juice
a carton of apple juice
I danced, ate cakes, drank juice and spoke with friends.
full of juice
juicy mangoes
You must taste the oranges because they are so juicy, so sweet.
interesting because of shocking or personal information
juicy gossip
"That's it," she thought, "somebody must have taken it to their room last night, hoping for some juicy gossip!"
the seventh month of the year, after June and before August
22(nd) July/July 22(nd)
Ben's birthday is the eleventh of July.
next/last July
The film festival is in/during July.
The art class after school is on Wednesdays until the end of July.
to push your body up and away from the ground using your feet and legs
The children were jumping up and down with excitement.
She ran across the grass and jumped into the water.
He had to jump out of an upstairs window to escape.
We jumped naked into the swimming pool!
to go over something by moving up into the air
Can you jump over/across this stream?
All the horses are finding it difficult to jump the last fence.
It's a lot of fun to jump streams of water that are formed by the rain.
to move or act suddenly or quickly
She jumped in/into a taxi and rushed to the station.
He suddenly jumped to his feet/jumped up and left.
So I jumped into my car and when I got to the stadium I started to run.
to make a sudden movement because you are frightened or surprised
Her scream made me jump.
The noise of a doorbell made me jump.
to guess the facts about a situation without having enough information
He saw them talking together and jumped to conclusions.
I think, before jumping to conclusions, we should first try to analyse the situation.
a sudden movement off the ground or off a high place
He won with a jump of 8.5 metres.
a bungee/parachute jump
She could not believe that she, the shy and unimportant Laura Wilcox, was standing on the top of a bridge ready for her bungee jump.
a piece of clothing usually made of wool which covers the top of your body and is pulled on over your head
a warm jumper
I left my red jumper at your party last night.
the sixth month of the year, after May and before July
Her birthday is 24th June.
He arrived on the fifth of June/June the fifth.
last/next June
I went to visit my father in June.
The class will be on Saturday, 16 June.
a tropical forest in which trees and plants grow very closely together
The Yanomami people live in the South American jungle.
Either side of the river is dense, impenetrable jungle.
It is a little bit far and out of the city, near the jungle and the mountains.
low or lower in rank or position
a junior minister
junior office staff
There were six junior clerks and a teacher from the bank in a teaching room when suddenly the chairman of the bank came in.
for or relating to young people
a junior tennis tournament
I am used to working with children, as an instructor for a junior football team in my city.
10/20, etc. years younger than someone
My wife is 8 years my junior.
I have a sister four years my junior and in my opinion we have no reason to complain.
old things which have little value
His car is just a heap of junk.
I would also like to get rid of the junk in the other bedroom.
food which is unhealthy but which is quick and easy to eat
He eats far too much junk food.
Nowadays young people often have junk food such as chips, beef burgers and so on.
letters or emails sent by companies to advertise their goods and services
Most of these letters are junk mail.
I collect the post which is usually junk mail.
a group of people who have been chosen to listen to all the facts in a trial in a law court and to decide whether a person is guilty or not guilty, or whether a claim has been proved
members of the jury
The jury was/were unable to agree.
Police officers aren't usually allowed to be/sit/serve on a jury.
The accused is defended by a famous lawyer who tells his wife that a loving wife's confirmation of her husband's alibi will not convince the jury.
a group of people who decide the winner of a competition
The jury must now decide.
People who think they are talented enough to sing and appear on TV apply for the show and go to auditions to sing their heart out in front of a jury.
If the jury is (still) out on a subject, people do not yet know the answer or have a definite opinion about it.
The jury's still out on the safety of GM food.
I think that the jury is still out on the effects of television and other media.
a very short time ago
I've just been on a trip to France.
We've only just begun.
I've just had my birthday. It was on Friday.
now or very soon
I'm just coming!
The doctor will be with you in just a minute/moment/second.
only; simply
"Would you like another drink?" "OK, just one more."
It was just a joke.
The film is not just about love.
Just because you're older than me doesn't mean you can tell me what to do.
It was just a dream...
almost not
This dress only just fits!
We arrived at the airport just in time to catch the plane.
The airplane will arrive at midday, just in time for lunch.
exactly or equally
This carpet would be just right for the dining room.
The twins look just like each other.
Things turned out just as I expected.
You've got just as many toys as your brother.
I can't help you just now.
Just then, the lights went out.
After the play, which turned out to be just as bad as I thought, I wanted to relax in the Theatre Restaurant, but it was closed, and for no reason!
used to emphasize something you say
It's just dreadful what happened to her.
I just can't bear it!
That is my best place - it is just wonderful.
more or less; almost
"Can you see the stage?" "Yes, just about."
I've just about finished painting the living room.
I was just about 2 months older.
to be going to do something very soon
I was just about to phone you.
I was so amazed that I didn't realize I was just about to fall into the lake.
equally bad/good/tall/clever, etc.
He's just as talented as his brother.
Everywhere he went was just as good as he expected.
a little before/over/under, etc. something else
She left just before Michael.
It costs just under £10.
Last autumn I bought a new flat in Siedke which I moved into just before New Year's Eve.
at the same time as
She woke up just as we got there.
Just as I was turning on the radio somebody knocked at the door.
used to say that it is lucky that something happened
It's just as well we brought an umbrella.
It is just as well that my friends had cars to give me a lift to the school.
used to say that there is nothing else someone can do
You'll just have to wait.
We will just have to wait and see.....
fair or morally right
a just society
He is really involved in what he is doing and does not fear facing the difficulties if it is to defend a just cause.
behaviour or treatment that is fair and morally correct
There's no justice in the world when people can be made to suffer like that.
The winner has been disqualified for cheating, so justice has been done.
Both of them symbolize courage, a love of justice, and a fight for freedom, which makes them look like heroes.
the system of laws which judges and punishes people
The justice system in this country consists of a series of law courts at different levels.
The police are doing all they can to bring those responsible for the bombing to justice.
They are victims of a miscarriage of justice.
I hope by the time I am out of prison, the justice system will have changed.
to show the best or real qualities of something or someone
This postcard doesn't do justice to the wonderful scenery.
No words can do justice to the indignation that I feel.
having a good reason
justifiable anger
Thus, we can understand that this attitude to reading is, to some extent, justifiable.
a reason for something
There's no justification for treating her so unfairly.
Unfortunately that day, I took the diary with me, although there was no justification for taking it because I was just going to visit my grandparents and I had no intention of staying there more than one day.
fair or having a good reason
justified criticism
He's perfectly justified in asking for a salary increase.
Finally, I would strongly recommend that steps are taken to remedy matters and feel we are justified in requesting partial compensation.
to give or to be a good reason for
I can't really justify taking another day off work.
Are you sure that these measures are justified?
The fact that you want to be the best in your job does not justify your attitude.
If you justify yourself, you give a good reason for what you have done.
It was the only thing that I could do - I don't have to justify myself to anyone.
How we can justify ourselves, when we are completely against captivity?
by, for, or relating to young people
juvenile crime
Among many aspects of crime, researchers have been keenly studying juvenile crime.
a large Australian animal that moves by jumping on its back legs
Kangaroos are a danger on the roads.
Furthermore it has been my dream since I was five years old to see a kangaroo and play with it.
very interested or enthusiastic
She's a keen tennis player.
She's keen on (playing) tennis.
We are both quite keen on sailing and skiing.
wanting to do something very much
The shop is keen to attract new customers.
He is very keen to write a report about crime.
very good or well developed
a keen sense of smell
Furthermore, she has a keen sense of humour and does not mind a practical joke, which is an advantage with children.
to have something permanently or for the whole of a period of time
Do you want this photograph back or can I keep it?
I can't keep the sofa because it is too big.
to regularly store something in a particular place
Keep medicines in a locked cupboard.
We'll keep your application on file.
All my homework sheets were kept in that file.
to (cause to) stay in a particular place or condition
I wish you'd keep quiet.
I like to keep busy.
Keep left/right at the traffic lights.
It was difficult for us to keep warm, as the house had no heating.
He goes jogging twice a week to keep fit.
John keeps the car spotlessly clean.
The noise from their party kept me awake half the night.
I love swimming because it keeps me fit.
to continue doing something without stopping, or to do it repeatedly
He keeps trying to distract me.
I kept hoping that he'd phone me.
I don't know why I wanted to meet her so much but my heart just kept telling me to go after her.
to communicate or continue to communicate with someone, for example by email or telephone
We've kept in touch by email for the last five years.
Please keep in touch with me.
to delay someone or prevent them from doing something
He's very late, what's keeping him?
She kept me talking on the phone for half an hour.
Don't let me keep you from your work.
to not tell anyone a secret/ about something secret
Mr Brown apparently delayed the announcement, and managed to keep it secret from the entire cabinet.
I had loved Sean since sixth grade but I was keeping it a secret.
to be late so that someone has to wait for you
I'm sorry to have kept you waiting.
The dentist kept me waiting for ages.
A week later, when we were going to have our second lesson, she kept us waiting for almost an hour.
to do what you have promised to do
James kept his promise and repaid all of the money he had borrowed.
She didn't keep her promise and she ruined my life.
to write something down in order to remember it
Remember to keep a record of how much you spend.
Furthermore, a computer helps us to keep records by saving files.
to watch or look after someone or something
Could you keep an eye on this pan of soup for a moment?
You have to supply everything they need and keep an eye on them all the time.
If food or drink keeps, it remains fresh.
Once opened, this product will keep for three days if refrigerated.
to have and look after animals
Our neighbours keep chickens.
It is cruel to keep dogs, cats, and birds in flats.
to stay with someone so that they are not alone
Come and keep me company, Isabel.
I wish you came and kept me company.
to remember to consider someone or something that may be useful in the future
I'll keep you in mind if another job comes up.
But we should keep in mind that books improve our vocabulary and, what's more, our imagination.
to continue to know about someone or something
He changes jobs so often I can’t keep track any more.
Be sure to keep track of the time so you won't be late.
Trying to keep track of these changes by translating them would be an inappropriate task.
to do what you said you would do
He agreed to come and I'm sure he'll keep his word.
It turned out that the company that had been hired to organize it did not keep their word.
to provide what someone needs for a short period of time
Dinner is at eight, but I had an apple to keep me going.
Because of health concerns, advertisements lately show the people in Holland how important it is to have a good breakfast and that it will keep you going the whole day.
to provide enough money for someone to live
I can't keep a family on that salary.
The economy had been developed and people could earn money in order to keep the family.
to remain calm
You did well to keep your cool in all that panic.
Whatever the problem is, keep your cool, don't panic.
to watch carefully for someone or something to appear
Keep an eye out for the delivery van.
Although individually we try to deliver the best care possible for our individual patients, we do keep an ear or an eye out for the other members of the team that day.
to move or develop at the same speed as someone or something else
We have to keep pace with the changing times.
It was first published a century ago and what amazes people most is that it keeps pace with the development of the country without leaving out references to our history and tradition.
to make certain that someone always knows what is happening
Keep me posted on anything that happens while I'm away.
We will keep our members posted on the best eating places in town.
to try not to be noticed
She has kept a low profile since the divorce.
Finally, I believe that the best way to handle these issues is to try to keep a low profile at all times and to remain indifferent to gossip.
to watch carefully for someone or something
Keep your eyes open for anything unusual.
It has helped us identify and successfully combat many a nutritional hazard, keeping our eyes open to immoderate consumption of some substances and its effects.
to be able to pay for your food, clothing and somewhere to live
His wages are barely enough to keep body and soul together.
Not only does he keep body and soul together, but he is on good terms with his wife.
to watch carefully for someone or something
Keep your eyes peeled, he should be here any minute.
Ever since, I try to keep my eyes peeled for anything similar.
to manage to stop yourself from smiling or laughing
I can never play jokes on people because I can't keep a straight face.
to hope that things will happen in the way that you want them to
Let's keep our fingers crossed that she gets the job.
We're crossing our fingers and hoping that the weather stays fine.
Wish me luck, Winnie," she sighed "keep your fingers crossed, please".
to remain calm in a difficult situation
To be successful in business, you need to keep a cool head in negotiations.
Kevin managed to keep a cool head and took over the navigation.
to have just enough money to live or to continue a business
With extra income from private sponsorship, the club is just about managing to keep its head above water.
I also started to realise how much she had on her plate, how very little help she had and how, at times, she had to struggle just like me to keep her head above water.
to not talk about something that is secret
It might be wise to keep this quiet for a while.
They tried to keep it quiet but, somehow, half the village knew about the news in a few days.
to succeed in staying calm and not becoming angry
I can't discuss this with you unless you promise to keep your temper.
He never offends people and he keeps his temper even if someone insults him.
to make sure that someone gives all their attention to what they are doing and is ready for anything that might happen
We have random inspections to keep everyone on their toes.
a person who takes care of animals or is in charge of valuable objects, a building, etc.
a zoo keeper
a lighthouse-keeper
Tina was confused because she wasn't a dragon keeper, so normally dragons didn't speak with her.
short for goalkeeper
The keeper intends to stay with the club until the end of next season.
He is a very good keeper - before he played football, he was in a karate club.
a covered metal or plastic container with a handle and a shaped opening for pouring, used for boiling water
If I have an electric kettle in my bedroom, I won't need to go to the kitchen.
a piece of metal cut into a particular shape that is used for opening or closing the lock of a door, starting a car engine, etc.
car/door/house keys
I left my keys at your house.
a list of answers to an exercise or game
See key to Test 3 on page 176.
a way of explaining or achieving something
Hard work is the key to success.
To those who say that money can't buy happiness I answer that money is a key to happiness.
one of the parts that you press with your fingers on a computer or musical instrument to produce letters, numbers, symbols or musical notes
Press the shift key to write in capital letters.
piano keys
What is more, you can get the information you need in just one second by pressing the "enter" key on a computer.
very important in influencing or achieving something
She was a key figure in the international art world.
a key factor in tackling the problem
Unfortunately one day I decided that it was time to become more independent and I didn't ask a key question.
to be very important in influencing or achieving something
Early diagnosis is key to your chances of surviving.
Distribution is key to achieving economic growth and the positioning of domestic and imported goods.
to put information into a computer using a keyboard
I've got all the data now but it still needs to be keyed in.
Just key in the appropriate information and in a few seconds you will receive prices and conditions.
a set of keys that you press to use a computer
I got a new keyboard and mouse for my computer.
COMPUTER FOR SALE It's one year old so I will give you the monitor and keyboard.
an electrical musical instrument similar to a piano, or the set of keys on a piano or similar musical instrument
Steve plays keyboards, drums, and saxophone.
I play two instruments, so I can help you with the concert, playing guitar or keyboard.
to hit someone or something with the foot, or to move the feet and legs suddenly and violently
I kicked the ball as hard as I could.
He was accused of kicking a man in the face.
I picked up a ball and kicked it, and the dog ran after it with the phone still in his mouth.
to be very annoyed with yourself for doing something stupid or wrong
I could have kicked myself for saying that.
Nevertheless what kept me kicking myself was that this time my partner was in danger as well.
the action of kicking something
She gave him a kick under the table to shut him up.
We practiced shooting, passing the ball to each other, and taking a corner kick.
a special feeling of excitement and energy
She gets a kick out of performing live.
I really get a kick out of anything which concerns magic.
a child
He took the kids to the park while I was working.
Even small kids came and had fun.
one of the two organs in your body which remove waste from the blood and produce urine
kidney failure/disease
Her kidneys didn't work well enough to keep her healthy and someone had to be found who could give one of his kidneys to her.
to cause someone or something to die
Her parents were killed in a plane crash.
Smoking can kill.
Food must be heated to a high temperature to kill harmful bacteria.
I like it because you must kill a lot of monsters.
used to say that someone will be very angry with someone else
Dad will kill me for being late.
It's very important to find it because if not my mother will kill me!
to do something while you are waiting for something else to happen or have nothing else to do
We killed time playing video games.
When you are at home alone and have nothing to do, you can kill time watching television.
to cause you a lot of pain or effort
My feet are killing me.
It wouldn't kill you to tidy up occasionally.
I didn't have enough room to move and the seat belt was broken so when we finally arrived in Edinburgh my back was killing me.
to stop an activity or experience completely
His remark killed the conversation.
someone who kills another person
Police are still hoping to find the dead woman's killer.
I opened the window to take a breath of fresh air and I saw the man again, the killer, smoking a cigarette and looking at me.
when a person is murdered
a series of brutal killings
During the film there were a lot of explosions, killings and action scenes.
a kilogram
a 200 kilo block of concrete
We danced a lot, and I think everybody has lost 2 kilos.
a unit of mass equal to 1000 grams, or 2.2 pounds
She weighs between 55 and 60 kilograms.
a unit of measurement equal to 1000 metres
It's five kilometres from my house.
a type of thing or person
What kind of music do you like?
Today's vehicles use two kinds of fuel - petrol and diesel.
Her travel company was the first of its kind.
My favourite kind of music is rock.
many different types of something
The cupboard contained all kinds of strange things.
To help, I could bring all kinds of CDs.
used to show that what you have just said is only an example from a larger group of things
I like pasta, pizza - that kind of thing.
I enjoy that kind of thing, going to buy presents.
used to talk about something when you are not sure of its exact type
She has some kind of disability.
You should try joining some kind of club.
used to describe something approximately
It's a kind of shed.
He was kind of half laughing and half crying.
I know that the Frene Hotel is kind of expensive, but it's just for one night so I think we can make it.
used to describe someone or something that is completely different from other people or things
My Dad was one of a kind - funny, kind and generous.
Pele is indeed one of a kind and can be considered a model for youngsters.
generous, helpful and thinking about other people's feelings
She's a very kind and thoughtful person.
It's really kind of you to help us.
Please be kind to your sister!
It's very kind of you to find an Australian pen-friend for me!
in a kind way
Stella has very kindly offered to help out with the food for the party.
He answers my simple questions kindly.
to not like something that someone says or does
He doesn't take kindly to criticism.
His wife didn't take kindly to his lateness and immediately snarled at him as though she was a tigress snapping her claws in a cat-fight.
the quality of being kind
love and kindness
Thank you again for your kindness and hospitality.
(the title of) a male ruler of a country, who holds this position because of his royal birth
King Richard II
the kings and queens of England
The French kings lived at Versailles.
the best or most important person in a particular activity
He's the new king of pop music.
He is the king of football, which is not at all an exaggeration, even though he is retired now.
a country ruled by a king or queen
the kingdom of Sweden
The kingdom Chosun lasted until the beginning of the 20th century.
all animals or plants considered together
The monarch butterfly is one of the most beautiful creatures in the animal kingdom.
As well as being of paramount importance for the animal kingdom, Hawley Woods is the only green open space left in our area where we humans can walk, jog or simply lie on the grass.
to press your lips against another person's lips or skin to show love or affection
She kissed him on the mouth.
He kissed the children good night/goodbye.
I danced, drank a lot and kissed a girl.
an act of kissing someone
Give your granny a big kiss.
a kiss on the lips
Then she gave me her address and gave me a sweet kiss.
a set of clothes worn for sport
football kit
Yesterday when I came to your house, I left my tennis kit.
a collection of things kept in a container for a particular use
a first-aid/tool kit
I would rather buy a big travel kit, including a first-aid kit.
a room where food is kept, prepared and cooked and where the dishes are washed
We usually eat breakfast in the kitchen.
the kitchen table
a new fitted kitchen
I think my bag is in your kitchen.
a toy made from paper or cloth which flies in the air on a long string
We spent the morning flying a kite in the local park.
I got a lot of presents: a kite, a ball, shoes, a T-shirt, trousers, jeans, and a dog.
a young cat
Our cat's had two kittens.
the middle part of your leg where it bends
a knee injury
The baby was crawling around on its hands and knees.
He got/went down on his knees in front of the altar.
He entered the living room drunk and with blood over his knee.
to go down into, or stay in, a position where one or both knees are on the ground
She knelt (down) beside the child.
He knelt in front of the altar and prayed.
Robert knelt down by her, pronouncing the simple words "Will you marry me?"
women's underwear that covers the bottom
There was one time when Pat and I had a fight. It all started when I accidentally took the wrong bag back to my house, and there were ladies' knickers inside.
a sharp tool, usually with a metal blade and a handle, used for cutting and spreading food or other substances, or as a weapon
a fish/butter/steak knife
I prefer to use a knife and fork.
He drew/pulled a knife and stabbed her.
I want to sell a beautiful old knife, because it doesn't cut anything.
to make clothes, etc. by using two long needles to connect wool or another type of thread into joined rows
She's forever knitting.
She's busy knitting baby clothes.
My granny knitted me some gloves/knitted some gloves for me.
I would really like to learn how to knit sweaters and hats.
a round handle, or a round button on a machine
a door knob
Turn the black knob to switch on the radio.
It's so obvious that when we turn a knob on or when we switch on something and there is no electricity, we are at a loss!
to repeatedly hit something, making a noise
She knocked on the window to attract his attention.
There's someone knocking on/at the door.
Please knock before entering.
On Monday, a person knocked on my door.
to hit, especially forcefully, and cause to move or fall
He accidentally knocked the vase off the table.
She knocked her head against the wall as she fell.
She took a hammer and knocked a hole in the wall.
Falling down, I knocked my head on the pavement.
a place where one or more pieces of string, rope, etc. have been tied
Tie a knot in the rope.
The man was always wearing a shabby coat and a big red scarf which was tied in a very complicated knot.
to get married
We're planning to tie the knot in April.
She was going to tie the knot in July.
to have knowledge or information about something in your mind
"Where did he go?" - "I don't know."
"What does it cost?" - "Ask Kate. She'll know."
She knows the name of every kid in the school.
I don't know anything about this.
We don't know when he's arriving.
I don't know what all the fuss is about.
I just knew (that) it was going to be a disaster.
I don't know how long it is.
used to ask someone to tell you a piece of information
Do you know the time?
Do you know where the Post Office is?
Do you know why?
to be able to do something
Do you know how to ski?
I only know a little Spanish.
Some people know how to play the guitar.
to be certain
I know (that) she'll be really pleased to hear the news.
I don't know whether I should tell her or not.
I can't find the information, but I know the class is on Tuesday.
to tell someone something
Let me know if you're coming to the party.
I just want to let you know that we are going to use blue paint because I really like blue.
used to emphasize what you are saying, or used before you start to talk about someone or something, or used as something to say while you are thinking what to say next
I'm not stupid, you know!
You know the bookshop next to the bank? Well, it's closing down.
It's, you know, supposed to be a surprise on her birthday.
to be familiar with or have experience and understanding of
I've known Daniel since we were at school together.
She grew up in Paris so she knows it well.
I've seen the film 'Casablanca' so many times that I know a lot of it by heart.
Knowing Sarah, she'll have done a good job.
I knew him in London, and when I knew him I was very happy.
If you know a subject, you are familiar with it and understand it.
Do you know about computers?
If you want to know more about Peruvian history, I recommend you visit the city because you can see the old houses and museums.
to spend time with someone or something so that you gradually learn more about them
The first couple of meetings are for the doctor and patient to get to know each other.
I'll need a few weeks to get to know the system.
I hope you can come here and get to know him.
used when you have an idea
I know - let's go to Helen's house.
used when you are saying something that someone already knows
As you know, we have been trying to contact him.
As you know, I am in New York.
used to say that you think something is true, but cannot be sure
As far as I know, he's never been in trouble with the police.
As far as I know, accommodation at Camp California is in tents or log cabins.
to have the intelligence or judgment not to do something
She should have known better than to eat so much. No wonder she feels sick now.
I should have known better but I had to tell it to someone.
used when you agree with something someone has just said
"It's a lovely day, isn't it?" "I know - let's hope it lasts."
used to say that something could be possible although it does not seem likely
You never know - you might win the lottery.
You never know, maybe I'll find something interesting and I'll change my point of view.
very soon
We'll be there before you know it.
It is a bit dark inside and especially in winter, it is dark before you know it.
to know everything about something
He knows the system inside out.
The participants got to know Britain inside out and they are happy with the knowledge they gained.
to understand a subject because of your experience
He doesn't know what he's talking about - he's never even been to Africa.
I believe that you don't really know what you're talking about.
to guess something correctly
I should have known he wouldn't come.
I should have known that he wouldn't understand.
to be the most suitable person to have responsibility and make important decisions
When it comes to dealing with my own son, I think I know best.
How true is that expression "Father knows best". If my father was alive today he would probably be laughing his head off.
to have enough experience not to do something stupid or something that will not achieve anything
I thought she'd listen to me - I should have known better.
Surely two grown-ups should have known better than to shout at each other at the top of their lungs.
used to talk about part of a story that happens in a sudden and surprising way
A car came speeding round the corner, and the next thing I knew I was lying on the ground.
And the next thing I knew was that I was playing cards with 3 men.
to know a lot about a subject, or to be very good at doing something
She's an excellent teacher - she really knows her stuff.
The thing was that she should have been be able to tell them what to do; she never doubted her own abilities. She knew 'her stuff' all right.
If you knowingly do something, you mean to do it although it is wrong.
I would never knowingly hurt her.
Separate sex schools unavoidably tend to instill values knowingly or unknowingly.
showing that you know what another person is really thinking
He smiled knowingly.
On staring at the picture, he saw two women smiling enigmatically, rather knowingly.
information and understanding that you have in your mind
Her knowledge of English grammar is very extensive.
He has a limited knowledge of French.
The details of the scandal are now common knowledge.
Actually, I wanted to improve my English knowledge, because I need a good job.
used to say that you think that something is true, but cannot be sure
To the best of my knowledge, she's never worked abroad.
Besides, to the best of my knowledge, nowhere in the city can you try such lovely mushrooms.
something that a lot of people know
It's common knowledge that he spent time in jail.
It is common knowledge that such attention in the mass-media inevitably tells on relationships in the family.
knowledge about something which is good enough to be useful
She has a working knowledge of German and Russian.
Furthermore, I have a working knowledge of English, Spanish, Catalan and Italian.
knowing a lot
He's very knowledgeable about art.
The teaching staff are largely responsible for the quality of the classes, as they're very knowledgeable and patient; being able to find them after classes, though, was impossible.
to be called
California is also known as the Sunshine State.
He studied in Central College, which is now known as Queen's College.
recognised or known about by most people
These people are known criminals.
He is known to the police because of his previous criminal record.
if something or someone is known to do something, people know that it is true or happens
He is known to dislike opera.
Her car was known to break down frequently.
Firstly, the development of technology is known to cause obesity.
one of the parts of your finger where it bends
I grazed my knuckles on the concrete.
What he could see was those two skinny figures, holding hands so tightly that their knuckles were white.
a laboratory
a science/computer lab
a lab technician
There are computer labs too.
a small piece of paper or other material which gives information about the thing it is fixed to
Remember to put some address labels on the suitcases.
Washing instructions should be on the label.
It was the price label hanging from the skirt belt.
a company which produces goods for sale, the goods themselves, or the company's name or symbol
Her favourite designer label is Armani.
Their own-label vegetarian products have been a huge success.
The group have just signed with a new record label.
Another style which I like is the clothes from big labels like Armani, Dolce and Gabanna and Hugo Boss, but they are very expensive.
a word or phrase that is used to describe the qualities of someone or something, usually in a way that is not fair
He seems to be stuck with the label of 'troublemaker'.
He pointed out that the label of "traveller" could only be given to those people who would be willing to spend a long period living in another country, enough time to understand the functioning of society and its rules and to be accepted as an "informed" citizen, or at least not to be regarded as a foreigner.
to fix a small piece of paper or other material to something which gives information about it
All food has to be labelled with 'best before' or 'use by' dates.
The parcel was clearly labelled 'Fragile'.
Moreover, the book shelves are clearly labelled and the books are in alphabetical order.
to describe the qualities of someone or something using a word or phrase, usually in a way that is not fair
They've been unfairly labelled as criminals.
As a matter of fact, Mediterranean people (contrary to North European countries), are labelled as hot-blooded people.
a room used for scientific work
research laboratories
a computer laboratory
Laboratory tests suggest that the new drug may be used to treat cancer.
I was in my school, in a laboratory, when I lost it.
work, especially the type of work that needs a lot of physical effort
The car parts themselves are not expensive, it's the labour that costs the money.
manual labour
My contribution towards this project is that I will provide two of my trucks and labour for the transportation of garbage within the community to the dumping sites.
workers, especially people who do practical work with their hands
skilled/unskilled labour
casual labour
This is seen in some AIDS programmes by developed countries to developing countries where many poor people including women and children benefit from skilled labour from abroad.
the number of people who are available and willing to work
More women have entered the labour market in recent years.
WELCOME TO THE JUNGLE best suits the situation of a young Pole entering the labour market.
an activity that is hard work but which you do because you enjoy it
He prefers to paint the house himself - it's a real labour of love.
Being a musician is a labour of love.
the stage of pregnancy when the woman has pain because the baby is coming out
to be in labour
labour pains
22 years ago, Alison Smith gave birth to twins, a boy and a girl, in a very painful labour.
not having something, or not having enough of something
Her only problem is lack of confidence.
Lack of sleep had made him irritable.
If he fails it won't be for/through lack of effort.
We won't be going on holiday this year - lack of money, I'm afraid.
If you like nature, wish to see tropical birds, which are rare in your country, or just wish to have a pleasant time, the countryside is the best option, despite the lack of nightlife.
to not have or not have enough of something that is needed or wanted
He just lacks a little confidence.
What we lack in this house is space to store things.
We are lacking three members of staff due to illness.
He lacks confidence due to such a terrible appearance.
to not have a quality
He's totally lacking in charm of any sort.
On the other hand, Japanese children are lacking in creativity and originality.
If something that you need is lacking, you do not have enough of it.
Enthusiasm has been sadly lacking these past few months at work.
And, last not least, I would really like to show them the importance and beauty of our cultural heritage which was lacking in my upbringing.
a boy or young man
A group of young lads were standing outside the shop.
He's a nice lad.
The Prime Minister's a local lad.
Come on, lads, let's get this job finished!
A young lad from Bristol said that he does not really care what he does as long as it brings him "an awful lot of money".
a piece of equipment which is used to reach high places, consisting of short steps fixed between two long sides
She was up a ladder, cleaning the window.
My grandfather fell down from the ladder yesterday while he was fixing the broken light bulbs.
a series of increasingly important jobs or stages in a particular type of work or process
a first step on the employment ladder
He moved rapidly up the corporate ladder.
Far too often it is not "the key" but "the missing link", preventing us from taking the next step on the career ladder.
a polite or old fashioned way of referring to or talking to a woman
There's a young lady here to see you.
Say "thank you" to the lady, children.
A very nice lady offered me a ride home but I refused.
very relaxed and not seeming worried about anything, or causing people to feel this way
a laid-back style of teaching
He's very laid-back.
The place had a laid-back atmosphere.
It was very nice to be with laid-back people, not only because it led me to forget about unnecessary worries, but also it made me think about myself more thoroughly than before.
a large area of water which has land all around it
We used to go boating on that lake.
Lake Windermere
Next to the lake, there is a sports centre.
a young sheep, or the flesh of a young sheep eaten as meat
We were staying on a farm where there were newborn lambs.
roast lamb
I specially like the eggs and rice, and the spicy lamb that they are quite good at.
a piece of equipment that produces light
a table/bedside lamp
an oil lamp
I think it is next to the lamp.
an area of ground, especially when used for a particular purpose such as farming or building
This sort of land is no good for growing potatoes.
We want to buy a plot of land to build a house.
One man talked about how people can use their land properly, how they should take care of their poultry farm or dairy farm, and how they can take care of their trees and crops.
the surface of the Earth that is not sea
It is cheaper to drill for oil on land than at sea.
The treaty has led to a dramatic reduction in the number of land-based missiles in Europe.
Firstly, the car is the fastest way of transportation by land that we have.
a country
a land of ice and snow
The group want to promote their ideas in schools throughout the land.
Australia is said to be "the land of contrasts" and so indeed it is.
to arrive at a place in a plane or a boat, or to make a plane or a boat reach the land
We should land in Madrid at 7am.
You can land a plane on water in an emergency.
We landed at Port Said in the early evening.
When we landed, my suitcase was not there.
If an object or person lands somewhere, they fall to the ground there.
The ball landed in the neighbour's garden.
She landed flat on her back.
Then, when your booking form landed on my door mat, I decided to take matters into my own hands and to pay a visit to this conference.
to get something, usually something good
He's just landed a new job at an agency in London.
To return to our first point, people do not usually land a job in their field of study or childhood dream.
an arrival on the ground of an aircraft or boat
One person has died after the pilot of a light aircraft was forced to make a crash/emergency landing in a field.
The company said our landing would depend on the weather forecast.
a woman who you rent a room or a house from
My landlady doesn't let us have guests.
The thing is our landlady loves money and we have to pay plenty of money excluding the accommodation fee.
a man who you rent a room or house from
I've asked our landlord to fix the window.
I came downstairs and saw my landlord, who seemed very angry.
a building that you can easily recognize, especially one that helps you to know where you are
a historic landmark
What they enjoyed most was the bus tour of London, on Tuesday, as it was a chance for them to see all the famous landmarks without walking.
an event which is famous or important in the history of something
His speech was a landmark in the history of civil rights.
This film will never be "Titanic" successful, or "Casablanca" successful, or "Matrix" successful, but it will always be a ... landmark in the history of action and martial arts films, forever redefining its genre.
the appearance of an area of land, especially in the countryside
a rural landscape
The castle dominates the landscape for miles around.
The landscape was beautiful with a lake, a lot of animals, birds, and many flowers.
a narrow road in the countryside or in a town
He drives so fast along those narrow country lanes.
I think the best place to buy all this junk food is from my aunty's sweet shop, just 2 miles down your lane.
part of a road or track that is separated from the other parts, usually by a painted line
the inside/middle/outside lane
the fast/slow lane
They're widening the road from two to three lanes.
For example, most buses drive in an extra lane.
the busy and exciting way of life that a successful person has
Fed up with life in the fast lane, Jack gave up his job and moved to the countryside.
Finally, should you ask why people are not happier than before, the answer is that nowadays they spend more hours on work than before, because modern life is mostly a life in the fast lane.
an occasion when you remember some of the good things you did in the past
We were just taking a walk down memory lane and recalling our youth.
I want to return there, without the kids, even without my husband, to have a long stroll down memory lane.
a type of communication used by the people of a particular country
How many languages do you speak?
I'm hopeless at learning languages.
the English language
I'm learning a new language.
communication between people, usually using words
She has done research into how children acquire language.
Language is very important for communication between people.
words of a particular type, especially the words used by people in a particular job or academic field
legal language
the language of business
English has become the language of science, so it seems, even though some of the papers, studies and publications are hard to read and understand.
a system of instructions that is used to write computer programs
I'm not familiar with that language.
Students must have knowledge of at least one programming language, preferably Visual C++.
very rude and offensive words
There was a lot of foul language in the movie.
It is the responsibility of the parents not to fight or use any foul language in front of the kids, as they may learn and use it in front of others.
words that some people might consider to be offensive
The movie contains strong language.
But what I do see is local kids standing by the corner, chatting, smoking fags and using strong language.
Your lap is the top part of your legs when you are sitting down.
Come on kids - sit on my lap and I'll read you a story.
Clara opened her eyes and she was sitting on a comfortable sofa in her warm room, and in her lap was a history book.
one complete turn around a race track or from one end of a swimming pool to the other
He's two laps behind the leaders.
The race began and David was 2nd after 25 laps, behind Nilson's rear bumper.
a computer that is small enough to be carried around and used where you are sitting
A laptop would be really useful for when I'm working on the train.
I think the laptop is in your bedroom.
big in size or amount
a large house
the world's largest computer manufacturer
We need a larger car.
We didn't expect such a large number of people to attend the concert.
We've made good progress, but there's still a large amount of work to be done.
Researchers have just completed the largest-ever survey of criminal behaviour in the UK.
It's the new Nokia 380S. I like its large screen and its video camera.
in general
By and large, people have welcomed the changes.
By and large, it is clear that we all enjoy some kind of sport.
people or things in general
This group is not representative of the population at large.
Television - sometimes also described as the 'idiot box' - has been accused of turning a whole generation into 'couch potatoes' and blamed for every malady affecting the society at large.
If something looms large, it becomes very important and often causes worry.
The issue of pay will loom large at this year's conference.
It was, she dreaded to admit, a sense of regret. She shock her head as if doing so shooed the feeling away. On the contrary, however, it was looming large while she was stamping along the busy street.
almost completely
a largely male company
Their complaints have been largely ignored.
Until recently, the civil war had been largely unreported in the press.
What I'm trying to say is that images, film-frames, videos and sound clips would be largely accepted by the young people because we're moving into a new high-technology age.
a machine that produces a strong beam of light that has medical and technical uses or a beam of light produced by a machine like this
laser beam
laser surgery
These appliances have been the key to medical achievements, such as laser-based surgery or different kinds of diagnosis and treatment.
the week/year/Monday, etc. before the present one
I went to Barcelona last month.
Where were you last Thursday?
Last month I went to college every day.
the evening or night that has just passed
I didn't sleep well last night.
Did you go out last night?
I think I left my coat in your house last night.
the most recent
What was the last film you saw?
It's rained for the last three days.
Thank you for your last letter.
The last book, house, job, etc. is the one before the present one.
My last house was half this size.
I liked his last book but I'm not so keen on this latest one.
I like it because my last watch was broken.
happening or coming at the end
It's the last room on the left.
That's the last programme of the series.
I was the last one to arrive.
"How did she get on in her race?" "She was last."
I live opposite the last bus-stop.
only remaining
Who wants the last piece of cake?
The cameras watch everybody in the house 24 hours a day. Every Friday, the public decides who should leave. The last person wins this show.
the least expected or wanted person or thing
Three extra people to feed - that's the last thing I need!
The last thing I wanted was to make you unhappy.
Matthew is the last person I'd expect to be interested in dance.
He's the last person I'd trust with my keys.
I thought it would be the last thing I wanted, but it wasn't. I've really enjoyed this opportunity.
something that you do because everything else has failed
Soldiers were given the authority to shoot, but only as a last resort.
But forcing the child to believe in the way we would like it to believe should be used only as a last resort, after discussion and persuading, not before.
used to talk about the most recent time you did something
When did you last see her?
I think it was July when I last spoke to him.
Write back soon and let me know what you have been up to since I heard from you last.
after everything or everyone else
I wasn't expecting to win the race but I didn't think I'd come last!
We've still got to check the figures but we'll do that last.
When I reached the other end of the pool, my heart suddenly stopped and I just couldn't move my legs to continue swimming. So, I arrived last.
something that you say to introduce the last person or thing on a list
This is Jeremy, this is Cath and, last but not least, this is Eva.
And, last but not least, some complaints were made about the entertainment the café provides.
finally
At last, I've found a pair of jeans that actually fit.
At last, all of us agreed on "Cinema Farhang".
a person or thing that does something after all the others
We were the last to get there.
After a short time, the last of Mrs. O'Connell's guests arrived.
the day, week, year, etc. before the one that has just finished
I only had my hair cut the week before last.
But the year before last I went with my parents on holiday and we had a lot of fun.
the only part of something that remains
We've just finished the last of the apples.
She was among the last of the truly great entertainers.
They felt the joy their predecessors must have felt after years of struggle, after risking their lives, after accepting in resignation to be the last of a lineage that had lasted for centuries.
the last time someone heard anything about a person or the last time they saw them
I had a letter from Bristol, and that was the last I heard of her.
I told them exactly what I thought, and that was the last I saw of them.
That was the last I heard of her for a long time.
to continue to happen, exist, or be useful
How long will the meeting last?
We don't get much sun - enjoy it while it lasts!
Most sessions last about an hour.
The batteries only last about five hours.
We saw a new film, "Signs", that I liked very much, even though I found it very long: it lasted about 3 hours!
to be enough for a period of time
I've only got £30 to last me till the end of the month.
We've got enough food to last another week.
Until now half of the Filipinos in the Philippines who devote themselves to farming are still on a hand to mouth existence, having just enough food to last until the next harvest.
finally
And lastly, I'd like to thank everyone who took part in the event.
Lastly, I'd like to say that it's very kind of you to suggest bringing something back for me.
done at the latest possible opportunity
a last-minute cancellation
I could come the following day to help you with the last-minute preparations if you want me to.
happening or arriving after the planned, expected, usual or necessary time
This train is always late.
You'll be late for your flight if you don't hurry up.
Sorry I'm late. I was held up in the traffic.
We always have a late breakfast on Sunday mornings.
I hope I am not late.
happening or being near the end of a period of time
It was late at night.
Is that the time? I'd no idea it was so late.
It was late summer when it happened.
It was built in the late nineteenth century.
He's probably in his late twenties.
I don't like the time the class finishes. It's too late!
describes someone who has died, especially recently
She gave her late husband's clothes to charity.
It took me a while to find a person whom I regard as successful, the outcome is a friend of my late father.
If you tell someone to do something by a particular time at the latest, you mean they must do it before that time.
She said to be there by 8 o'clock at the latest.
after the planned, expected, usual or necessary time
Kathryn's just phoned to say she's working late this evening.
The rains came late this year.
The party finished late.
near the end of a period of time
We talked late into the night.
As late as the 1980s they were still using horses on this farm.
Firstly, he usually starts working at eight in the morning and he keeps on writing and phoning till late in the evening.
recently
Lately, I've been walking to work.
I haven't been feeling so well lately.
I'm sorry I couldn't write back to you before but I've been very busy lately.
used for saying goodbye to someone you are going to meet again soon, especially during the same day
See you later!
I'm just going out for a bit. See you later.
at a time in the future or after the time you have mentioned
He'll be back later.
We could always go later in the year.
I will show you the picture later when I come to college.
at a time in the future, or after the time you have mentioned
What are you doing later on this evening?
Shall I go and fetch her later on?
Later on, we could go and have a meal if you like.
But later on, I could not believe what actually happened.
happening at a time in the future, or after the time you have mentioned
We could catch a later train.
You can always change your password at a later date.
He said he'll come at a later date.
happening towards the end of a period of time or the end of someone's life
He needed round-the-clock care in the later stages of his illness.
During his later years, he lived in London.
Another solution could be for people to take out private pension schemes which would help them financially in the later stages of their lives.
more modern or recent
Later versions of the software are much better.
Later models included a 2.5 litre engine.
I prefer her earlier paintings to her later work.
I consider his childhood as especially worth mentioning due to the fact that it had a great impact on his later work.
being the newest or most recent or modern
Have you seen her latest movie?
the latest fashions
I like it very much, because it is the latest model and nobody at our school has it.
near or towards the end of something
Building of the new library should begin in the latter part of next year.
In the latter stages of the fight he began to tire.
I agree with the latter opinion.
the second of two people, things or groups previously mentioned
My boss offered me more money or a car, and I chose the latter.
The former is a Chinese restaurant and the latter an Indian.
to smile while making sounds with your voice that show you are happy or think something is funny
They laughed at her jokes.
I couldn't stop laughing.
I said he'd have to give a talk and he laughed nervously.
She's so funny - she really makes me laugh.
It's very rare that a book is so good you actually laugh out loud.
It was so funny, I burst out laughing.
We laughed all the time.
If a subject is no laughing matter, it is serious and not something that people should joke about.
This weather is no laughing matter.
Anna and Tom knew this was no laughing matter.
the act or sound of laughing
a loud/nervous laugh
I was embarrassed at the time, but I had a good laugh about it later.
There is a beautiful beach there where you can swim, play football and enjoy a good laugh with your friends.
the act or sound of laughing
She roared with laughter.
As we approached the hall we could hear the sound of laughter.
There was a roar of laughter.
to begin an important plan or activity
The scheme was launched by the government a year ago.
Dear Phil, I was very proud last Monday when you asked me to help you to launch this association.
If a company launches a product or service, it makes it available for the first time.
The book was launched last February.
The airline will launch its new transatlantic service next month.
The firm was launching a new product and Peter was the manager in charge of making this product the most desirable thing to buy.
to send a spacecraft or bomb into the sky, or a ship into the water
A spokesman for the dockyard said they hoped to launch the first submarine within two years.
to launch a missile
Could our grandparents or grandparents' parents imagine that one day, we would be able to launch rockets, to have satellites in the sky?
the start of an important plan or activity or the process of making a new product or service available
The launch of their new campaign began today with a press conference.
How much champagne will we need for the launch?
Illness prevented her attending the launch party for her latest novel.
As for the natural resources, it is not very effective as nothing has changed since the launch of the campaign.
the launching of a spacecraft, ship, or weapon
The launch of the space shuttle was delayed for 24 hours because of bad weather.
Since I was a young boy I was constantly imagining that I was able to travel through time and be an eye-witness to some of mankind's most significant moments - the birth of Christ, the discovery of America, and even up to recent events such as the launch of the first space shuttle.
clothes, sheets, etc. that need to be washed
to do the laundry
Does the camp have laundry facilities?
showing that a lot of money has been spent
a lavish meal/party
Wilbur arrived later, too late for the compulsory martini but still on time for the lavish meal of 7 courses.
the subject or job of understanding and dealing with the official laws of a country
to study/practise law
a law school/firm
a specialist in commercial/criminal/international law
Her name is Martina, she is twenty-one years old and she studies law in Bologna.
an official rule in a country
There are laws against drinking in the street.
The laws governing the possession of firearms are being reviewed.
They led the fight to impose laws on smoking.
They have passed a new law to ban fox hunting.
I think it would be a good idea to let shop owners decide themselves about opening time and not to constrict this by law.
the system of official rules in a country
What does the law say about having alcohol in the blood while driving?
Of course robbery is against the law!
The judge ruled that the directors had knowingly broken the law.
You can't take that course of action and remain within the law.
As a result, the law is being constantly broken.
If you have to do something by law, it is illegal not to do it.
They have to provide a contract by law.
Swedish organisations and companies are forced by law to put forward programmes for employing more women and improving their conditions.
something that is always true in science, mathematics, etc.
the laws of nature/physics
the law of averages/gravity
Unfortunately, several problems have been caused by this "artificial attempt" against the laws of Nature.
to do something illegal in order to punish someone because you know that the law will not punish that person
The police did nothing about the thefts, so they took the law into their own hands.
Therefore, locals are scared to death, leading to their taking the law into their own hands.
the obeying of laws in society
a breakdown in law and order
The breakdown in law and order, lack of basic amenities to support life, absence of a fair and enabling environment for citizens to thrive, to mention but a few, are some among many factors that constitute the cogent reason why most Nigerians choose to travel out of their own country.
an area of grass that is cut
Will you mow the lawn at the weekend?
Please find enclosed a map of Brighton. Concerning the house, I ask you to mow the lawn regularly and to water the flowers and the green plants every day.
someone whose job is to give advice to people about the law and speak for them in court
I want to see my lawyer before I say anything.
After that she thanked me and she told me that she is a lawyer.
to put plates, knives, forks, etc. on the table to prepare for a meal
Could you lay the table for me, please?
Before she came to my home, I prepared everything perfectly, laying the table with silver spoons, flowers and candles.
If an animal lays eggs, it produces them out of its body.
The hens have laid a lot of eggs this week.
The only thing they can do is to lay eggs.
to put something down somewhere carefully
She laid the baby on the bed.
He laid the tray down on the table.
She laid aside her book and went to answer the phone.
Veterans lay flowers on the graves of those who'd died during the War.
an amount of a substance covering a surface, or one of several amounts of substance, each on top of the other
the ozone layer
A thick layer of dust lay over everything.
There was a thin layer of oil on the surface of the water.
We stripped several layers of paint off the door.
I think clothes will have many gadgets on them like a small oxygen mask or a hat designed to protect people from the strong rays of the sun at midday because the ozone layer will be destroyed in a hundred years' time.
the way that something is arranged
Pay attention to the layout of your report.
Do you like the layout of the kitchen?
Concerning the layout of the new centre, I think that the changes you proposed to the size and location of the coffee bar will be of invaluable help.
being lazy
I could go to the gym - it's just laziness that stops me.
Sorry I haven't dropped you a line before now - no excuses really, just laziness.
Someone who is lazy does not like working or using any effort.
Get out of bed you lazy thing!
He's too lazy to walk to work.
If you like drawing and if you aren't a lazy boy, attend the new art class!
slow and relaxed
a lazy morning/weekend
All in all we spent a lazy holiday there with fine weather and a warm blue sea.
to show someone where to go, usually by taking them to a place or by going in front of them
I don't know the way, so you'd better lead.
She led them down the hall.
The waiter led us to our table.
Our guide led us through the mountains.
She took the child by the hand and led him upstairs to bed.
He led the horse out of the stable.
And you can go to the nearest village, where you can take a mountain walk led by experienced guides.
If something, for example a path or road, leads somewhere, it goes in that direction.
That path leads to the beach.
There's a track that leads directly to the reservoir.
A narrow trail of blood led directly into the cave.
I discovered a small path which led to an old castle we had never seen before.
to be winning a game or a competition
After thirty minutes the challengers were leading by two goals.
With two laps to go Ngomo led by less than two seconds.
The Lions lead the Hawks 28 - 9.
Marseille led 1-0 versus Milan AC in the match which qualified the winner for the semi-finals.
to be in control of a group, country, or situation
I think we've chosen the right person to lead the expedition.
I've asked Gemma to lead the discussion.
Who will be leading the enquiry into the accident?
I also led a group of people cleaning the wood just outside the city.
to live in a particular way
He was able to lead a normal life despite his illness.
Owing to the great speed of technological development, people need to lead a faster life than before.
to be better than anyone else
I still believe that we lead the world in acting talent.
to cause someone to do or think something
What led you to think that?
The brochure led me to believe that the price included home delivery.
The girl's disappearance leads him to think she was taken away.
to be caused or influenced by something
Her actions were led by greed.
The main reason that I believe so is that they do not seem to possess any tendency to fall in love blindly and let themselves be led by instinct.
to cause you to think that something is probably true
So you thought I was leaving, did you? What led you to that conclusion?
These results lead us to the conclusion that only people with "minds tough enough" will survive.
a winning position during a race or other situation where people are competing, or a position ahead of other people
For the first time in the race Harrison is in the lead.
With a final burst of speed she went/moved into the lead.
After last night's win Johnson has taken the lead in the championship table.
By the end of the day's play Davies had a lead of three points.
The whole family walked down to the beach, with Mum in the lead.
David was in the lead with a revolver tightly held in his hand.
the main person in a film or play
She plays the lead in both films.
A child who leaves school feeling that he has succeeded in leaving his mark by holding the school record for high jump or getting the lead in the school production is a happy, confident child who is able to face the next chapter in his life knowing he can and will do well.
The lead performer or lead part in a performance is the main performer or part.
Who played the lead role?
It was Dave Grohl, the lead singer of Foo Fighters!
a person in control of a group, country, or situation
a tour leader
The Russian leader wants to introduce further changes.
He's a natural leader.
She was elected as leader of the campaign group.
When I arrived there, the group leader introduced me to all the others, and they all were very friendly.
someone or something that is winning during a race or other situation where people are competing
He's fallen two laps behind the leaders.
Microsoft is a world leader in software design.
The work experience with SuNatCo must, without doubt, positively affect your future career, as our firm is a world leader in the sphere of communications.
the job of being in control of a group, country, or situation
The group flourished under her firm leadership.
R&M gained market leadership by selling products that were of superior quality.
Apart from his charismatic leadership and his pioneering spirit, Eleftherios Venizelos was very close to people who were impoverished and deeply disappointed at that time.
the people in control of a group, country, or situation
There is growing discontent with the leadership.
The election for the leadership of the council will take place on Tuesday.
His reappearance is when he wins the leadership of the Social Democratic Party and when a few months later he becomes Prime-Minster.
the set of characteristics that make a good leader
What the company lacks is leadership.
He lacks leadership qualities/skills.
I also have strong leadership skills and I can lead a team, if necessary.
very important or most important
a leading expert on the country's ecology
the world's leading manufacturer of audio equipment
Indeed hard work plays the leading role concerning both family welfare and the national economy.
a flat, green part of a plant that grows from a stem or branch
a lettuce leaf
autumn leaves
He was sweeping up leaves in his garden.
One of the things that I like about gorillas is that they are strong and they eat leaves, and another thing is that they can move very fast through the trees.
to start to behave in a better way
I'm not drinking any more - I've turned over a new leaf.
She promised to turn over a new leaf.
a piece of folded paper or a small book which contains information
I picked up a useful leaflet on how to fill in tax forms.
Another idea is to place a table where students, staff and visitors can find some information about the school and their activities, some leaflets and brochures.
a group of teams which compete against each other in a sport
Who do you think will win the league championship this year?
Liverpool were top of the Football League that year.
They are currently bottom of the league.
For example, I like live football matches from the Premier league.
If a liquid or gas leaks, it comes out of a hole by accident, and if a container leaks, it allows liquid or gas to come out when it should not.
Water was leaking from the pipe.
Oil leaked out of the car.
The tin was leaking.
The car leaked oil all over the drive.
There is always a possibility that this tent is leaking.
If someone leaks secret information, they intentionally tell people about it.
Details of the report had been leaked to the press.
"If these facts were leaked to the press, my career would be done for," he said.
a hole in something that a liquid or gas comes out of, or the liquid or gas that comes out
There's water on the floor - we must have a leak.
If you suspect a gas leak, phone the emergency number.
The theatre restaurant was closed because there was a serious leak in a pipe and the kitchen was flooded.
secret information that has intentionally been told to someone
There have been several leaks to the press.
to move the top part of your body in a particular direction
She leaned forward and whispered in my ear.
He was leaning out of the window.
Lean your head back a bit.
John loved figures, combining them into long lines, counting them and solving difficult problems. And he had a secret. He saw numbers in different colours. ... John tried to hide his papers with a book but Mr. Robinson leaned forward and whispered: "My number one is always red".
to rest against something for support, or to move something into this position
She leaned her head on his shoulder.
His spade was leaning against the fence.
She turned around and saw this boy leaning against the wall.
to suddenly move somewhere
He leapt out of his car and ran towards the house.
I leapt up to answer the phone.
At the split second the man rings the bell, there are over a 100 people suddenly leaping up from behind the desk.
a sudden improvement or increase
There was a big leap in profits last year.
This represents a great leap forward in technology.
Ultimately, we could be taking a "giant leap" towards technological excellence.
If progress or growth happens in leaps and bounds, it happens very quickly.
Her Spanish has come on in leaps and bounds this year.
To begin with, it is undeniable that technology, which is developing in leaps and bounds, has contributed to the wide range of goods that we enjoy nowadays.
to get knowledge or skill in a new subject or activity
They learn Russian at school.
"Can you drive?" "I'm learning."
I've learned a lot about computers since I started work here.
I'm learning to play the piano.
First you'll learn to use this machine.
Every day at college I learn new words and new things in my life.
to make yourself remember a piece of writing by reading it or repeating it many times
I don't know how actors manage to learn all those lines.
We were told to learn Portia's speech by heart for homework.
He was a very famous and popular actor. He's very funny and he shows us very useful tricks to help us learn our roles.
to be told facts or information that you did not know
We were all shocked to learn of his death.
I later learnt (that) the message had never arrived.
I only learnt about the accident later.
I was pleased to learn that you are coming to Switzerland.
to start to understand that you must change the way you behave
She'll have to learn that she can't have everything she wants.
She soon learnt not to contradict him.
He's not afraid to learn from his mistakes.
I am sure that the organisers will learn from their mistakes and that next year you will enjoy it.
someone who is getting knowledge or a new skill
learners of English
She is very shy, so her Japanese didn't improve very rapidly, but she was a very industrious learner.
the process of getting knowledge or a new skill
language learning
This technique makes learning fun.
For the first month in her new job she was on a steep learning curve.
These events are not only to entertain students, they are also a part of the learning process, as by communicating with each other, students learn the language.
as much as, or more than, a number, amount, distance, etc.
It will cost at least £500.
You'll have to wait at least an hour.
I can write at least once a week.
even if nothing else happens or is true
If you can't manage to clean the whole house, at least make sure the kitchen is clean.
We could go shopping or at least go and have an ice-cream somewhere.
something that you say when you are telling someone about an advantage in a bad situation
It's a small house but at least there's a garden.
It is not impressive but at least it has some things that I like.
less than anything or anyone else
I chose the least expensive dish on the menu.
This group is the least likely of the four to win.
Disaster struck when we least expected it.
It was the answer she least wanted to hear.
Every day was the same and I thought that nothing would change but I was wrong - something changed and that something happened on the day I least expected it to.
used to reduce the effect of a statement
I've met the President - at least, he shook my hand once.
But after years of developing my slalom, I wanted to learn something new, so, I started Hot-Dogging. Hot-Dog is great fun. At least, people say so.
something that you say to introduce the last person or thing on a list
This is Jeremy, this is Cath and, last but not least, this is Eva.
And, last but not least, some complaints were made about the entertainment the café provides.
especially
The whole trip was fascinating, not least because of the people I met.
We are all human beings but we are all different, not least because of a different cultural background.
not at all
I don't mind staying at home, not in the least.
Educating two children was not so easy a task, not in the least!
less than anyone or anything else
He contributed least to the workshop.
I like the green one least of all.
He's the relative I like (the) least.
Giving her a bed for the night was the least I could do.
Taking you to the airport was the least I could do for such a good friend.
not less than, and probably much more than
At the very least, you should apologize.
We should earn £500 at the very least.
Thus, I trust you will agree that at the very least I deserve a letter of explanation from you and a substantial refund of my money.
used to emphasize that you could have said something in a much stronger way
We were surprised, to say the least.
You get slightly bored, to say the least.
the smallest amount
She earns the least money of all of us.
I spent the least time on the third question.
My favourite way to travel is by plane, because I think that the most important point when you are travelling is to arrive at your destination in the least time.
the skin of animals that is used to make things such as shoes and bags
a leather jacket/belt/handbag
And I got teddy bears, a cool leather jacket, and a pretty bag.
to go away from a place or a situation, either permanently or for a temporary period
The bus leaves in five minutes.
I'll be leaving at seven o'clock tomorrow.
He left the house by the back door.
She left the group of people she was with and came over to speak to us.
"Does Trevor still work there?" "No, he left last month."
She left school at 16.
I leave home at 7.30.
to put something in a place and forget to take it with you when you go
Hey, you've left your keys on the table.
That's the second umbrella I've left on the train!
I think I have left my umbrella in the bathroom.
to put something in a place where it will stay
You can leave your bags at reception.
Why don't you leave the kids with me on Friday?
Can you take my sunglasses and leave them in my house today?
to put something somewhere for another person to have later
I left some sandwiches for them to have later.
Can I leave a message for Sue?
I will leave a short message for you.
to not use all of something
They'd eaten all the cake but they'd left some biscuits.
Are there any sandwiches left?
If you're having a bath, make sure you leave enough hot water for the rest of us.
Could you please help me to find out if there are any places left on the course.
to end a relationship with a husband, wife, or partner and stop living with them
I'll never leave you.
She left him for a younger man.
Jose, who is a bus driver, was very unhappy, because his girlfriend had left him.
to cause something to stay in a particular condition
Leave that chair where it is.
Don't leave any lights on, will you?
I'll have to go back - I think I've left the iron on.
You can leave the window open.
And I heard my husband shouting: "Mag, do you always have to leave all the lights on?"
to stop speaking to or annoying someone
Leave me alone! I'm trying to work.
I asked him to leave me alone and unplugged the phone.
If you leave something or someone doing something, you allow them to continue doing it, or they continue doing it when you go away.
I left the children watching television.
She also has the tendency to leave the children doing what they want, sometimes without realising the consequences.
to produce a particular, often bad, situation
Far from improving things, the new law has left many people worse off than before.
Storms have left areas of Britain without electricity.
The family were left homeless.
He was born on a ranch in Jalisco, the fourth of eight children, and when the youngest was only six months old, my grandfather died, leaving the family penniless.
to do something later that you could do immediately
Don't leave your packing till the night before you go.
I'll leave these letters till Monday.
Don't leave it too late.
They left booking their holiday till/to the last minute.
I left it until the following day since I was too worn out to go on.
to arrange for someone to receive something after you die
He left his nieces all his money./He left all his money to his nieces.
"I hate him", Jane thought, "and I wonder why on earth Uncle John left him all his money and the most beautiful estate in our country with this old manor house, in which all my ancestors were born."
to leave someone to do what they want to do
With both parents out at work, the kids were often left to their own devices.
The moment teenagers leave school, they are left to their own devices.
to do everything that you can in order to achieve something or to find someone or something
Both sides have vowed to leave no stone unturned in the search for peace.
She has left no stone unturned so as to reach her goal, always asserting her assets and views with conviction.
time allowed away from work for holiday or illness
How much annual/paid leave do you get?
She's (gone) on leave.
I've asked if I can take a week's unpaid leave.
It was from him, her lover, and told her that he was on leave and would come to visit her.
a formal talk on a serious or specialist subject given to a group of people, especially students
We went to a lecture on Italian art.
Who's giving the lecture this afternoon?
The film will start at 9.30pm, so you could reach us after your lectures at the university in the pub near the cinema.
to give a formal talk to a group of people, often at a university
She travelled widely throughout North America lecturing on women's rights.
For ten years, she lectured in law.
He was also lecturing at the local university and really knew what he was talking about in respect to the underwater world.
someone who teaches at a university or college
a lecturer in psychology
In addition, my lecturers can't give me particular explanations for my questions.
a long white and green vegetable that smells and tastes similar to an onion
leek soup
I had some roasted chicken pieces with some leek and broccoli and roasted potatoes and Jan had his favourite spaghetti with cream sauce.
on or towards the side of your body that is to the west when you are facing north
His left eye was heavily bandaged.
Tomorrow I must to go to the doctor because of my left leg, I can't walk any more.
to the side of your body that is west when you are facing north
Turn left at the lights.
When you go out of Kilburn station, you turn left and you go straight.
the left side of your body, or the direction towards this side
First I'll introduce the speaker sitting on my left.
Take the first/second/third on the left.
It's the shop to the left of the pub.
It's on the left.
on or to the left of something
There's a sign on the left-hand side.
When the bus arrives at City Hall, you can jump out, and my house is on the left-hand side by City Hall.
relating to the belief that wealth and power should be shared equally
He is interested in left-wing politics.
Women's politics are usually followed by the left-wing parties in Austria.
one of the parts of the body of a human or animal that is used for standing and walking
My legs were tired after so much walking.
He broke his leg skiing.
The horse broke its front leg in the fall.
He has broken his leg and I must look after him.
money or property that you receive from someone after they die
An elderly cousin had left her a small legacy.
So, soon after I agreed to receive the great legacy from my great aunt with joy, I realised that a problem would occur accordingly.
a situation that was caused by something from an earlier time
The war has left a legacy of hatred.
Many of his novels deal with the social and political problems facing his country, including the difficulty of the post-colonial legacy.
relating to the law
legal advice
a legal obligation/requirement
your legal rights
Unless I hear from you within ten days, I shall have to take legal advice on the matter.
allowed by the law
Is abortion legal in your country?
Can anybody say how any enterprise should or must work? Is it legal?
a legal process in a court
They are planning to take legal action against the company.
If we do not get a satisfactory answer to this letter, apologising and offering the compensation that the students deserve, we will have no other option but to take legal action.
as stated or allowed by the law
Children under sixteen are not legally allowed to buy cigarettes.
He already had a driving licence, so by that time he could legally drive his own Ferrari.
an old story or set of stories from ancient times
The dance was based on several Hindu legends.
She is writing a thesis on Irish legend and mythology.
Legend has it that he always wore his boots in bed.
You know I'm fond of medieval tales and legends, so while we're in Scotland, let's visit a haunted castle!
a famous person
a living legend
Jazz legend, Ella Fitzgerald, once sang in this bar.
The audience at the London Palladium was much more quiet, partly because we were in a theatre, partly because everyone was speechless in front of such a living legend.
famous for being excellent
the legendary guitarist Jimi Hendrix
He became editor of the legendary Irish journal, 'The Bell'.
If I went back to the beginning of the 70s, then I would probably have had a chance to work with Bill Gates and his 'legendary crew'.
from a legend
a legendary Greek hero
The last article concerned Hercules, the legendary hero.
a law or a set of laws
The government has promised to introduce legislation to limit fuel emissions from cars.
And while governments have taken measures to reduce emission of fuels into the atmosphere and prevent toxic waste from being discharged into the oceans, the existing legislation is not rigorously enforced.
reasonable and acceptable
He claimed that the restaurant bill was a legitimate business expense.
Not even when he mentioned acts of violence as a legitimate way of achieving one's goals did she react.
allowed by law
The army must give power back to the legitimate government.
After all, Ralph has the conch, which symbolizes legitimate power, and has been democratically elected.
the time when you are not working
leisure activities
Most people only have a limited amount of leisure time.
The town lacks leisure facilities such as a swimming pool or squash courts.
Reading is my favourite leisure activity. I've already read fifteen books this year.
an oval, yellow fruit that has sour juice
lemon juice
For this recipe you need the juice of two lemons.
Would you like a slice of lemon in your tea?
We drink juice and tea with lemon.
a cold drink with a lemon flavour that is sweet and has bubbles
I'd like a glass of lemonade, please.
We drank lemonade and talked about you.
to give something to someone for a short period of time, expecting it to be given back
She doesn't like lending her books.
If you need a coat I can lend you one/lend one to you.
I like pop music, and I can lend you some pop music cds.
If a bank lends money, it gives money to someone who then pays the money back in small amounts over a period.
The bank refuses to lend to students.
The bank agreed to lend him $5000.
to be suitable for a particular purpose
The novel's complex, imaginative style does not lend itself to translation.
Last but not least, the fact that he managed to reconquer the realm of rock music for the German tongue lends itself to being displayed, together with similar efforts by bands like Aurhefu, who achieved a similar "resurrection" for the Welsh language.
the measurement or distance of something from one end to the other
The boat is ten metres in length.
The length of the bay is approximately 200 miles.
The new one has a length of 2.10 metres.
the amount of time something takes
the length of a film/speech/play
He is unable to concentrate on his work for any length of time.
We will need you to start the talk at 7:00 p.m. with a length of one hour.
the amount of writing in a book or document
He's written books of various lengths on the subject.
All of your essays will be about the same length.
in every part of a place
They travelled the length and breadth of Scotland together.
It is the reason that we can easily see the foreigners wandering the length and breadth of the museum being unaware of the origin of items they look at.
If you talk about something at length, you talk for a long time.
We discussed both topics at length.
Since we have already arranged for your family to come to stay in my home and discussed the arrangements at length and in detail, I will no longer bother you with terms of payment and other information that, judging by your letter, seems to be quite irrelevant.
to not allow someone to become too friendly with you
I always had the feeling she was keeping me at arm's length.
At first she keeps them at arm's length, but Mr Emerson is direct and advises Lucy to behave in a more natural way instead of doing what some old ladies say.
to become longer or to make something longer
There are plans to lengthen the school day.
Furthermore, I suggest ... that you lengthen the stay in Cambridge which was definitely too short.
continuing for a long time
a lengthy discussion/process
Many airline passengers face lengthy delays because of the strike.
It is worth watching because it is a really lovely story and you can gain a lot of optimism from it by realising that problems are not always as big as they seem to be, but as it is a soap opera it is extremely lengthy.
A lenient punishment is not severe.
He asked the judge to pass a lenient sentence.
The Court had been too lenient towards his detested father.
a large wild cat that has yellow fur with black spots on it and lives in Africa and southern Asia
We saw leopards in their natural habitat.
We saw different kinds of animals like a leopard, a buffalo and so on.
not as much
Exercise more and eat less.
Getting out of bed in summer is less difficult than in winter.
I prefer summer clothes because they're less heavy than the winter ones.
almost or approximately
We've more or less finished work on the house.
He more or less admitted he'd done it.
The new window will cost £500 more or less.
I will now give you some information, so that you know more or less what you can expect.
used to emphasize that someone is not interested in or worried about something or someone
I couldn't care less what people think.
There was hunger, there was poverty and the king couldn't care less about his people's well-being.
not as much
We must try to spend less money.
I drink less coffee than I used to.
All the clothes cost me £60.50 so now I have less money.
not as much
I earn less than my brother.
My books cost less than the regular price.
to become less or to make something less
Exercise and a healthy diet lessen the chance of heart disease.
Strengthen the legs and it lessens the strain on the knees.
Should you give back the students' money and take into consideration our complaints, I am sure that you will lessen our disappointment.
a period of time when a teacher teaches people
How can we make science lessons more interesting?
She has never had/taken any acting lessons.
He gives French lessons.
One lesson takes 45 minutes.
an experience which teaches you how to behave better in a similar situation in the future
There is a lesson for all parents in this tragic accident.
My parents made me pay back all the money and it was a lesson I never forgot.
We can learn important lessons from this disaster.
I think he learned a valuable lesson.
to decide not to do something again because it has caused you problems in the past
I'm not going out without my umbrella again - I've learnt my lesson!
She learnt her lesson and she won't go out before an exam any more.
to punish someone so that they will not behave badly again
The next time she's late, go without her. That should teach her a lesson.
He didn't want to hurt Diane just teach her a lesson.
something that you say when you are making a suggestion
After the film, let's go out to dinner.
Let's not argue.
Let's go shopping.
to tell someone something
Can you still come on Friday? Please let me know.
I'll let you know when we've fixed a date for the meeting.
Please let me know as soon as possible.
to allow someone to do something, or to allow something to happen
She wanted to go but her parents wouldn't let her.
He decided to let his hair grow long.
Let your shoes dry completely before putting them on.
I'm letting you stay up late, just this once.
Don't let it worry you.
I hope my parents let me go with you to New York.
to allow someone or something to move to a particular place
They won't let us past the gate.
The roof lets in a lot of rain.
I had got so drunk that I could not control myself, so the doorman would not let me in.
something that you say when you are offering to help someone
Let me carry your cases.
used to emphasize that something is more impossible than another thing
You couldn't trust her to look after your dog, let alone your child.
We are surrounded by amazing pieces of technology which we do not fully understand, let alone use to their full capacity.
to stop holding someone or something
Hold onto the rope and don't let go!
I let go of the feather and it floated to the ground.
I kicked that man as hard as I could and it worked - he let go of my mouth to hold between his legs and then I screamed with a voice which could only be compared to Tarzan's.
to stop thinking about or being angry about the past or something that happened in the past
I have tried to let go of the past.
You've been storing up these feelings for years, and it's time to let go now.
It was obvious to me that he had had a hard time letting go of the past.
something that you say when the truth is unpleasant but must be accepted
Let's face it, we're not getting any younger.
Let's face it, we live in an era dominated by machines.
to relax when you should be careful or ready to deal with something
He's worried that if he lets his guard down that his staff will start to become lazy.
That of course will go against anything Stevens has ever done and he never lets his guard down.
to relax and enjoy yourself
I'd love to see Clare let her hair down for once.
Holidays indeed, represent the perfect and fundamental escapism from everyday life: we are free to let our hair down and savour the pure taste of idleness.
to get rid of your anger, excitement, etc. by being noisy or using a lot of energy
The children need to run around and let off steam.
I believe that listening to it on a daily basis will be an ideal way for us to relieve the day's pressure and let off steam.
able to cause death
a lethal injection/weapon
If we learn from the mistakes and there are no more wars, governments will donate money to social needs rather than assigning enormous sums on maintaining huge armies and inventing new types of lethal weapons.
a written message that you send to someone, usually by post
I got a letter from the bank this morning.
I got your letter yesterday.
a symbol that is used in written language and that represents a sound in that language
the letter D
My favourite T-shirt is pink with a picture of a silver rose, another one is blue with gold letters.
a plant with large green leaves, eaten raw in salads
Mix the lettuce and tomatoes together.
It contains two burgers, cheese, lettuce, tomato and anything else that you want to put in it.
someone's ability compared to other people
a course for beginner/elementary/intermediate/advanced level students
Students at this level require a lot of help.
The level is elementary.
the amount or number of something
Inflation is going to rise 2% from its present level.
Chess requires a very high level of concentration.
There is some danger of low level radiation.
Your body requires a high level of nutrients to keep body functions working smoothly.
the height of something
The water level in the lake is much higher after heavy rain.
Also, due to global warming, sea levels might rise and the risk of flooding will also rise.
a position within a system in which people are arranged according to their importance
These are subjects for discussion at management level.
But there is one big problem if the women can reach the upper management level: those women won't have any children.
flat or horizontal
Make sure the camera is level before you take the picture.
Before I fix it to the wall, would you say this shelf was level?
when you are legally responsible for something
They have admitted liability for the damage caused.
As soon as I had noticed it, I went to complain to the coach driver and he just disclaimed liability.
someone or something that is likely to cause you a lot of trouble
Wherever we go she upsets someone - she's a real liability.
It destroys the individual, brings shame to his family, and he becomes a liability instead of an asset to his society.
legally responsible
Corporate officials are liable for the safety of their employees.
As per our terms and conditions you are liable to pay for any damages occurred during the move and that is why we paid more money or premium to your Company than the others.
to be likely to do something
He's liable to make a fuss if you wake him.
I have taught them what is right and what is wrong, but also that a person is liable to make mistakes.
someone who tells lies
He's such a liar - you can't trust a word he says.
You liar - I never touched it!
The plan works: the jury thinks that the wife is a notorious liar and her husband is found innocent.
accepting beliefs and behaviour that are new or different from your own
a liberal society/attitude
Her parents were far more liberal than mine.
In a liberal society everything depends on a mixture of wise legislation and responsible individual behaviour.
Liberal political ideas emphasize the need to make new laws as society changes and the need for government to provide social services.
They are one of a group of liberal parties in the European Union.
He studied law in Paris and got involved in politics as a member of the liberal party during the first years of the last Century.
when something or someone is released or made free
the liberation of France from Nazi occupation
Leaving school was such a liberation for me.
Moreover, with the liberation of Greece, he was appointed as the First Governor of the new state.
the freedom to live as you wish or go where you want
For most citizens, liberty means the freedom to practise their religious or political beliefs.
Hundreds of political prisoners are to be given their liberty.
Of the ten men who escaped this morning from Dartmoor Prison, only two are still at liberty.
Personally, I think a zoo is a cruel way to imprison them after such a long period of time when they have been useful to Man, who is now depriving them of their liberty, preventing them from hunting and forcing them to eat what they are given.
to do something that will have an effect on someone else, without asking their permission
I took the liberty of booking theatre seats for us.
I have taken the liberty of listing some of my ideas and suggestions and hope they will be of interest to you.
to be allowed to do something
I'm not at liberty to discuss the matter at present.
On the one hand the child is at liberty to do whatever it pleases to do but on the other hand it was never taught the responsibilities implicitly tied to such actions.
a room or building that contains a collection of books and other written material that you can read or borrow
a public/university library
a library book
It's important because I want some books from the library, and without a library card I can't take any out.
an official document that allows you to do or have something
a driving licence
He lost his licence for a year due to dangerous driving.
I left my driving licence there.
to move your tongue across the surface of something
He licked the chocolate off his fingers.
She licked the stamps and stuck them on the parcel.
As soon as I come home, she jumps on me and licks my face. ... Princess is my ideal dog.
a cover on a container, which can be lifted up or removed
Can you get the lid off this jar?
Put a lid on the saucepan.
to be in or move your body into a horizontal position
to lie in bed
to lie on a beach
to lie on your side/back
A cat lay in front of the fire.
He lies awake at night, worrying.
I think Marmaris is the best place for you because you always want to lie on a beach.
to be on a particular surface
A pen lay on the desk.
There were papers lying all over the floor.
I hurried into the airport to find my suitcase lying in one corner.
to be in a particular place or position
The river lies 30km to the south.
Cambridge United are lying third in the league.
It lies in the south of the Czech Republic and it's a lovely place where you can spend your holiday.
If responsibility, blame, a decision, a choice, etc. lies with someone, they have responsibility, must make the decision, etc.
Responsibility for the disaster must ultimately lie with the government.
Where does the blame lie?
The greater responsibility lies with us to keep our villages and cities clean and, therefore, healthy.
to say or write something which is not true in order to deceive someone
Are you lying to me?
Don't trust her - she's lying.
I suspect he lies about his age.
She lied to me and said she could not come with me because she had work.
something that you say which you know is not true
I told a lie when I said I liked her haircut.
The e-mail was full of lies about things that I had never done.
the time between a person's birth and their death
Life's too short to worry about money!
I'm not sure I want to spend the rest of my life with him.
Unfortunately, accidents are part of life.
He doesn't know what he really wants in/out of life.
He lost his life in the Great War.
The College is helping me to improve my language, and to make my life very good.
everything which is alive
human/marine/plant life
Recently, I've enjoyed watching programmes about sea life.
a way of living
You lead an exciting life.
I left home at 16 to see life.
Teaching has been her whole life.
one part of someone's existence
I never talk about my private life.
my working life
We interviewed senior politicians, famous writers and others in public life.
The film is about family life.
the manner in which a person lives
She told us all about her way of life in Japan.
He told me about his hobbies, his way of life and especially about his love of learning languages.
the existence of a person
How many lives will be lost to AIDS?
A simple mixture of glucose and water can save lives in many parts of the world.
Finally if you witness an accident you should inform the police quickly, which can save lives.
energy or enthusiasm
She's so full of life.
Above all, I like children very much because they're full of life and always make a great impression on me when I have a chat with them.
for the whole of someone's life
I will have to take this medicine for life.
A wedding opens a new life when the two parties commit to each other for life.
the amount of time that a machine, system, etc. exists or can be used
The newer batteries have a much longer life.
Careful use will prolong the life of your machine.
The legislation won't be passed during the life of the present parliament.
a serious situation where people could die
Getting water to these people is a matter of life and death.
I told him it was a matter of life and death.
for all of your life
a lifelong friend/ambition/interest
Education is a lifelong process and you never stop learning.
the amount of time that a person lives or a thing exists
The average human lifespan has increased steadily in the last century.
Some electrical goods have a short lifespan.
The average lifespan for women is about 75 years and for men 69.
the way that you live
He doesn't have a very healthy lifestyle.
She needs a pretty high income to support her lifestyle.
an alternative lifestyle
I would like to go on an adventure like this, with a group of people with different backgrounds, cultures and lifestyles.
the period of time that someone is alive
We'll see a tremendous lot of technological changes during/in our lifetime.
Winners of the competition will receive the holiday of a lifetime.
I've only been working here two days, but it seems like a lifetime.
A watch of this quality should last a lifetime.
Marriage is no longer always seen as a lifetime commitment.
I'm sure you would love it, meeting so many famous musicians, who you might meet only once in a lifetime.
to move something from a lower to a higher position
Could you help me lift this table, please?
Could you lift your chair a bit - I've got my bag caught under it.
She lifted the cup to her lips.
Then, we lifted weights to get stronger legs, arms, etc. I met different people and I made lots of friends.
a machine that carries people up and down in tall buildings
Take the lift to the sixth floor.
I'm living in a flat. Sometimes my lift is not working so I must use the stairs and it's difficult for me.
a free ride somewhere, usually in a car
Can you give me a lift to the airport?
My mum can give us a lift.
a piece of equipment which produces light, such as a lamp or a light bulb
Could you switch/turn the light on/off, please?
She could see the city lights in the distance.
As the lights went down, the audience grew quiet.
My front bike light isn't working.
Dear Nick I'm writing about the concert at school. ... I can help you on Saturday morning to set up the lights and equipment.
the brightness that comes from the sun, fire, etc. and from electrical devices, and that allows things to be seen
bright light
Light was streaming in through the open door.
It's a north-facing room so it doesn't get much light.
We spent some wonderful days admiring the famous bright Nordic light which has made Shagen so popular amongst painters.
If something is done or happens in the light of facts, it is done or happens because of those facts.
The drug has been withdrawn in the light of new research.
In the light of this news, we took this issue as a class project and investigated it by interviewing residents.
If information about something bad comes to light, it is discovered.
She knew that the fraud would eventually come to light.
Eventually, their "liaison" comes to light and Leo blames himself for the disastrous outcome of the events throughout his life.
If information about something bad is brought to light, it is discovered.
The trial brought to light numerous contradictions in his story.
The evening investigation which was carried out by the mysterious Inspector brought all these facts to light.
to provide new information about something that makes it easier to understand
As an economist, he was able to shed some light on the situation.
In my opinion, a more complex evaluation of our attitude towards work will shed light on the process of work choice and it will give a greater amount of awareness to everyone.
Light colours are pale.
light blue/green
I am going to paint it light blue.
not heavy
a light summer dress
Here, take this bag - it's quite light.
He's a few pounds lighter than he used to be.
This mobile is very small and is very light.
lit by the natural light of the day
It gets light very early these summer mornings.
Summer is coming and the evenings are getting lighter.
Let's finish the work while it's still light enough to see.
In the centre of the town, streets are narrow and in many cases, they aren't light enough.
small in amount
A light wind was blowing.
The traffic was quite light so we got through London quickly.
It's only light rain - you don't need an umbrella.
I don't eat much for lunch - just a light snack.
The weather here is very warm and sunny with a light breeze.
to talk or behave as if you do not think a problem is serious
I just laughed and tried to make light of it.
They project an optimistic image and make light of the troubles in life.
to start to burn or to make something start to burn
to light a fire
I can't get the cooker to light.
He lit his fifth cigarette in half an hour.
We put up the tents and lit the fire.
to produce light somewhere so that you can see things
The stage had been lit with candles.
Fireworks lit up the sky .
Lightning lit up my bedroom and I saw a shadow moving outside the house.
a small object that produces a flame and is used to make cigarettes start burning
Can I borrow your lighter?
It's a silver lighter, with a little spider on, that my best friend bought me for my birthday.
the light created by electrical equipment, candles, etc.
We have put some lighting in the garden.
I fixed the lighting on the ceiling and attached several spotlights to the walls.
gently
She patted him lightly on the shoulder.
The weather here is wonderful, the sun is shining, the wind is blowing lightly, and the sky is also clear, clear, blue!
not much
lightly cooked vegetables
not do sth lightly
I like eggs lightly cooked so that the yolk is still runny.
to think carefully about something before you do it, knowing that it is serious
It's not a decision that I take lightly.
I hope you give my suggestion further consideration and not treat it lightly.
a sudden flash of light in the sky during a storm
thunder and lightning
a flash of lightning
That tree was struck by lightning.
She changed her clothes with lightning speed.
We were sitting in the car when the lightning hit the roof.
similar to or in the same way as someone or something
She's very much like her mother.
Is Japanese food anything like Chinese?
I've got a sweater just like that.
Her hair was so soft it was like silk.
After the game, we had a barbecue and I met Theresa, a very good-looking girl who is interested in politics, just like me.
something you say when you want someone to describe someone or something
I haven't met him - what's he like?
So what's your new dress like?
What is she like?
such as
She looks best in bright colours, like red and pink.
We have visited beautiful places like Chile, Patagonia, Iguazu.
typical or characteristic of
That's just like Maisie to turn up half an hour late to her own party!
It's not like you to be so quiet - are you all right?
a lot
The band practised like mad before their first concert.
It was raining like mad, so we were wet to the skin.
doing something a lot or in a fast way
We worked like crazy to get everything finished.
My heart was beating like crazy and when the ski-boat started its journey along the blue waves of the sea...
very much
It's raining like hell out there.
Soon it will be dark, and still pouring down like hell.
similar to or approximately
He paid something like $2000 for his car.
He earns something like £100,000 a week or even more.
to enjoy something or feel that someone or something is pleasant
I like your new haircut.
Do you like fish?
I like it when a book is so good that you can't put it down.
I don't like upsetting people.
He's very well-liked at work.
He likes to spend his evenings in front of the television.
He likes his steak well-done.
I like reading and writing.
used to say that you want something
I think I'd like the soup for my starter.
I'd like to go to Moscow.
I would like to say a big thankyou to everyone who's helped to make our wedding such a special occasion!
I'd like to book a seat for tonight's performance.
I would like to talk with people to practise my English.
used to ask someone if they want something
Would you like a drink?
Would you like to eat now?
Would you like to come?
used when you offer someone something
If you like, I could drive you there.
If you like, we can go to a night club.
as if
It looks like I'm going to be in the office until late tonight.
It sounds to me like you ought to change jobs.
You look like you've just got out of bed!
She acts like she's stupid!
It sounds like your trousers are really pretty, I would like to see them soon.
things that you do and do not like
What are your top five likes and dislikes?
The teacher asked about our families, friends, and likes and dislikes and then the lesson finished.
the chance that something will happen
There’s little likelihood of a compromise.
There's not much likelihood of that happening.
There is little likelihood of having a good place to live in without the scientists' support.
almost certainly
The facilities are wasted on people who in all likelihood will not use them.
In all likelihood, you will have to work during the weekends, even in summer, so I firmly believe that loving your job is very important.
describes something that will probably happen or is expected
Do remind me because I'm likely to forget.
I suppose that might happen but it's not very likely.
It's quite/very likely that we'll be in Spain this time next year.
They start thinking that the suitcase is likely to contain a bomb.
probably
She'll most likely come without him.
You will most likely not get there before 2.30. Welcome!
in the same way
Water these plants twice a week and likewise the ones in the bedroom.
Watch what she does and then do likewise.
And likewise, common sense tells us it doesn't matter that oranges from Spain contain 0.01% more vitamin C than those from Florida, as long as we eat them every once in a while.
the largest amount of something that is possible or allowed
Is there a limit on the amount of money you can claim?
I think we ought to put a limit on the amount of time we can spend on the project.
There's a limit to the number of times I can stop what I'm doing just so I can help him!
We set a time limit of thirty minutes for the test.
I always watch this programme, it's really interesting for anyone who enjoys cooking. ... Usually two chefs come in and prepare the food, and they have a time limit.
avoiding behaviour that is extreme or silly
You can wear what you want, within limits.
They should be given a choice of food, within limits.
If an area is off limits, you are not allowed to enter it.
Most of the palace is off limits to the public.
The only place that was off limits for us was on the other side of the mountain, because it was too dangerous.
the highest amount or level, or the longest time that something is allowed
£45,000 is the upper limit for salaries in this job.
I understand that it will be more expensive than the accommodation I currently have, and I am willing to stretch the upper limit of the rent I can afford to pay.
to control something so that it is less than a particular amount or number
I've been asked to limit my speech to ten minutes maximum.
Having so little money to spend on an apartment does limit you in your choice.
In general, kids and teenagers are, at home, allowed to do almost anything they want, which sometimes puts parents in a very difficult position when trying to establish rules in order to limit the freedom of the young.
a rule or situation that limits something
You can't write everything you want because of space limitations.
The only thing that is crucial now is that ministries of culture and tourism should set strict limitations about building and constructing in order not to destroy the stunning views of our beautiful country.
things that someone or something is not good at doing
Both films show her limitations as an actress.
I would like to be a super-woman but I will have to live with my limitations.
small in amount or number
a limited choice
limited resources
I like warm colours, orange and yellow, but my choices are limited for outdoor clothes.
kept within a particular size, range, time, etc.
Places on the bus are limited to fifty - so book early!
Free places on the course will be available for a limited period (of time).
Above all, would it possible to enjoy the offer in September or is it limited to July?
a long, thin mark
a straight line
Sign your name on the dotted line.
If you come, you have to bring with you a pencil, a rubber, a block without lines, only white pages, and water colours.
a row of words on a page
The same line is repeated throughout the poem.
Can you read the next line, please, Sonia?
In no more than ten lines, my mother explained that she was moving to Brazilia, the capital of our country, and that she would take me and my brother with her.
a railway track
The train was delayed, apparently due to leaves on the line.
The Northern Line is the worst on the London Underground.
The train line is closed between London and Lampton so now you have to use "ABC Coaches", which is also cheaper.
the connection between two telephones
I'm afraid your line's been disconnected because your last bill hasn't been paid.
If you want to air your opinions live on the radio, the lines will be open from eight o'clock.
I've got Chris Foster on the line for you. Do you want to take it now or call her back later?
Please hold the line. I'll see if she's available.
I have been told that if I also get a modem and connect to my telephone line and the PC, I could get in contact with different kinds of bulletin boards that your members use.
a type of product that a company sells
They're advertising a new line in garden furniture.
If, on the one hand, the changing market is forcing us to remove some product lines, on the other it is giving us new opportunities, as is the case for handhelds.
If there is a fine line between one thing and another, they are very similar. You often say this when one thing is acceptable and the other is not.
There's a thin line between courage and foolishness.
It took me 6 months to realise that there is a fine line between telling off and psychological abuse.
a row of people or things
a line of trees
The prisoners formed a line against the wall.
Its facade was cut by a line of French windows and there was a large number of people in front of the front door.
a long thin and sometimes imaginary mark that forms the edge, border or limit of something
That ball was definitely in! It was nowhere near the line!
The police couldn't arrest him because he'd fled across the state line.
a way of dealing with or thinking about something or someone
The government's official line has always been to refuse to negotiate with terrorists.
The courts should take a tougher line with sex offenders.
Several Labour MPs disagree with their party's line on taxation.
What sort of line do you think we should take in the pay negotiations?
The police are confident that this new line of inquiry will lead them to the murderer.
a row of positions used to defend against enemy attack, especially the ones closest to enemy positions
They were taken prisoner while on a reconnaissance mission behind enemy lines.
She was never afraid of going to the front line in battle.
If someone's job, reputation, life, etc. is on the line, they may lose it.
If we don't win the contract, all our jobs are on the line.
The person who hopes to achieve success shouldn't be afraid of taking risks and sometimes putting his or her career on the line for the sake of gaining much bigger benefits.
the most important fact in a situation
The bottom line is that people's health is at risk if they smoke.
The bottom line is that the adults of today have to stop for a second and think about what they are doing.
based on and similar to something
He gave a talk along the lines of the one he gave in Oxford.
Imagine one is encouraged by friends and institutions for their 'different' artistic or other activities, even if their works are not along the lines of 'acceptable' norms and tradition.
to be similar to and suitable for something
They were offered a pay increase in line with inflation.
The other two courses, at 5%, are still in line with the national average.
If someone says they know where to draw the line, they are talking about knowing at what point an activity or situation becomes unacceptable because it is wrong or too extreme
I swear a lot but even I draw the line at certain words.
A mistake is a mistake, people say. But in my opinion rape is not the same as shoplifting. So where do you draw the line?
your reasons for believing that something is true or right
I couldn't really follow his line of reasoning.
Similarly, the ones that follow this line of thought argue for long-living because by this, many talented and creative people will have the opportunity to develop a further concept of their thoughts and ideas; artists will have time to finish their masterpieces and all the world will appreciate their production.
If someone's actions or words are out of line, they are not suitable or acceptable.
Her remarks to the press were way out of line.
Today I see that my mother was right in this aspect since I acted extremely out of line sometimes and a soft hand certainly wouldn't help me in the future.
If you read between the lines, you understand what someone really means, or what is really happening in a situation.
Reading between the lines, it was obvious that something was wrong.
Having powerful insight, being able to read between the lines of even an unwritten story and exhibiting an interdisciplinary background are, again, qualities that perfectly describe the friends that there have been in my life.
to do what you are ordered or expected to do
Ministers who refused to toe the Party line were swiftly got rid of.
Her mother and her elder brother had always toed the line and so had she until she had reached adolescence.
to form a row along the side of something
Trees and cafes lined the street.
Under the arch formed by the top branches of the trees which lined both sides of the street, she was so much absorbed in her thought that she did not hear the sound of approaching steps.
an expensive cloth that is like rough cotton
a linen jacket
It has all the basic seams, and so far I have tried it with denim, cotton, linen, silk and even with leather, and it does the job perfectly.
pieces of cloth that you use to cover tables and beds
bed linen
You will find spare sets of linen in the children's bedroom as well as two spare quilts.
to stay somewhere for a long time
The smell from the fire still lingered hours later.
Many recollections of that evening have perished, like how I worked up the nerve to ask her, but one thing that lingers in my mind is that song we danced to.
relating to language or linguistics
I'm particularly interested in the linguistic development of young children.
Firstly, the claim that only one hour per day was required in order to obtain linguistic fluency is an unrealistic assumption.
a connection between documents or areas on the Internet
Click on this link to visit our online bookstore.
An au-pair friend of mine has given me a link to an au-pair homepage.
a connection between two people, things or ideas
There's a direct link between diet and heart disease.
Their links with Britain are still strong.
There is a direct bus link between the two locations: this is bus line number six.
to make a connection between two or more people, things or ideas
The explosions are not thought to be linked in any way.
The use of CFCs has been linked to the hole in the ozone layer.
The technological revolution taking place today can be directly linked to the amazing evolution of communication.
a large, wild animal of the cat family, with light brown fur
The lions came down to the water hole at sunset.
My favorite present is a lion.
one of the two soft edges of the mouth
She kissed me on the lips.
He licked his lips.
We went to a restaurant and when I had to leave, he kissed me on my lips.
a substance, such as water, that is not solid or a gas and that can be poured easily
liquid fuel/nitrogen
Mercury is a liquid at room temperature.
Inside there were three samples of a nasty purple liquid.
a series of names, numbers, or items that are written one below the other
a shopping list
Is your name on the list?
I've made a list of places I'd like to visit while we're in Paris.
Our class teacher will give us a list of things we must buy.
to make a list, or to include something in a list
I've listed some useful reading material on the handout.
I listed some reasons why we should apply for this job.
to give attention to someone or something in order to hear them
What kind of music do you listen to?
She does all the talking - I just sit and listen.
You haven't listened to a word I've said!
We listened in silence as their names were read out.
Listen, if you need money, I'm happy to lend you some.
Listen to this! You can win a holiday for two in the south of France just by answering three simple questions.
She likes to listen to oriental music and Turkish music.
to pay attention to what someone tells you and accept what they say
I told you she wouldn't like it but you wouldn't listen to me!
I did complain many times but he wouldn't listen to me.
someone who listens
The new radio station already has twelve million listeners.
She's a good listener.
She is a good listener, as well as quite talkative.
the ability to read and write
Adult literacy is low in this area.
School on the one hand has been a place to learn the important basics, like literacy and numeracy.
The literal meaning of a word or phrase is its real or original meaning.
the literal meaning/sense
This unconditional love does not include any rod in both the literal and figurative senses of the word.
having the real or original meaning of a word or phrase
They were responsible for literally millions of deaths.
Sometimes they literally go mad; they bite their mates or even kill their own children.
connected with literature
a literary critic
literary prizes
a literary style
Since I am aware of your interest in literature, I have chosen a literary figure.
able to read and write
He was barely literate.
To sum up, in no way is education a waste of time. What we do need is to improve it and make people believe that being educated and literate is a great asset.
books, poems, etc. that are considered to be art
classical/modern literature
great works of literature
'Wuthering Heights' is a classic of English literature.
He has studied English literature at Cambridge University.
a unit for measuring the volume of a liquid
The tax increase will add 4p to a litre of petrol.
Also, we must drink at least 1 litre of water per day.
pieces of paper and other waste that are left in public places
The streets were full of litter.
There is a lot of litter on the streets.
small in size or amount
It came in a little box.
a little dog/nose/room
He gave a little smile.
When I am swimming, I can see the little fish.
young
When you were little your hair was really curly.
She was my little sister and I looked after her.
Her little boy isn't well.
She has a little boy.
not important
They argue over every little thing.
She gets really stressed by little problems.
There is only one little problem. Unfortunately, the rooms are single.
short in time or distance
It'll only take a little while to finish this.
Let's have a little break.
It's only a little way to the school.
I was on a phone for a little while and the lights went out... who knows why!!
used to show affection or dislike for someone or something
Oh, what a sweet little house!
It's not a bad little restaurant, this, is it?
He's a nasty little man.
"Oh no Mr. Dracula...don't hurt me! Please don't hurt me!" I said desperately. "With such a pretty little neck? Oh no! I have to give you just a tiny little bite..."
not much or enough
There seems little hope of a ceasefire.
They have very little money.
There's so little choice.
In his opinion, being a teacher is a very bad way to earn money because you have a lot of work to do and earn very little money.
a small amount of something
It just needs a little effort.
Hi Sam, I need a little help from you. I need to borrow your bicycle, because someone stole mine.
a small amount
I could only hear a little of what they were saying.
He does as little as possible at work.
There's not much flour left but you're welcome to the/what little there is.
She slept very little that night.
We did very little on Sunday.
He told them how animals were treated by human beings - they had to work a lot and were fed very little.
a small amount at a time
Little by little, the boy learned to trust us.
However, as the time went by, I couldn't but feel my dream disappearing little by little.
slightly
I was a little bit worried by what she said.
We'll wait a little bit and then I'll phone them.
It was a little bit expensive, it cost 750 euro!
slightly
There's only a little further to go.
I'm a little surprised by my "popularity".
not much or not enough
a little-known fact
Little did he know what lay in store for him.
Little did I know that I would be even more confused afterwards.
not much more or better
We earned little more than pocket money.
She's little better than a thief.
It was little better than a slum, completely unfurnished, except for a desk with a diary on it.
to have your home somewhere
Where do you live?
We live in London.
Some students live on the University campus.
He lives with four other people in a shared house.
I live in Springfield.
to spend your life in a particular way
After a while you get used to living alone.
When you retire, you want to live a comfortable life.
So the prince and princess got married, and lived happily ever after.
He simply wants to live (out) the rest of his days in peace.
She certainly lived her life to the full.
I'm so sorry but I have to go to the hospital with my grandma, she lives alone and she needs someone to go with her.
to be alive
He only lived a few days after the accident.
I hope I live to see my grandchildren.
Her granny lived to the ripe old age of 94.
Boccaccio lived in the 14th century.
I entered and saw the chat chair? of my ancestor, who lived 500 years ago.
to keep yourself alive
For several years she lived by begging.
He only agreed to marry her so he could live off her (money).
Later on, though, as she gets to know Douglas and his friends a little bit better, she discovers that she simply cannot identify with this group of individuals, who look down upon India's native population while parasitically living off of it.
A live radio or television programme is seen or heard as it happens.
This evening there will be a live broadcast of the debate.
a live concert/recording
In January, there is a special live concert which includes the most popular music in my country.
full of energy and interest
It's hard work teaching a class of lively children.
a lively city
They take a lively interest in their grandchildren.
There was some lively discussion at the meeting.
Paris is very lively all day long and at night.
a large organ in your body that cleans your blood
He has something wrong with his liver.
The odd glass of wine is fine but every day is damaging and can ruin your liver.
alive now
living things/creatures/organisms
He is probably the best known living architect.
Environmental protection activists point out that living creatures shouldn't be deprived of their natural background and most endangered species could be saved from extinction by creating more national parks.
the money that you earn from your job
What do you do for a living?
You can earn/make a good living in sales if you have the right attitude.
You should try to earn a living from painting.
the room in a house where people sit to relax and, for example, watch television
We had tea in the living room.
My favourite room is the living room because it's the biggest in my house.
a lot
I've got a load of work to get through before tomorrow.
There were loads of people there.
Have some more food - there's loads.
She looks loads better with her new haircut.
We went to loads of beautiful places.
something that is carried, often by a vehicle
The maximum load for this elevator is eight persons.
One truck involved in the accident was carrying a heavy load of coal.
Quite honestly I think that you are pulling too big a load.
to put a lot of things into a vehicle or machine
How long will it take to load this sand onto the lorry?
Let's load up the car and then we can go.
to load the dishwasher/washing machine
Thus the situation was rather dramatic, the lorry had to be loaded before the sun rose.
to put information or a program onto a computer
You need to load this program onto your computer.
The shop keeper loaded 12 games onto it which I chose.
bread that has been baked in one large piece so that it can be cut into smaller pieces
a loaf of bread
I was often sent by my mother to the next shop to buy a loaf of bread, some milk and sometimes fruit and vegetables.
money that someone has borrowed
She's trying to get a £30 000 loan to start her own business.
We could apply for/take out a loan to buy a car.
From the programme they learn a lot about funding or getting a loan from a bank.
If something is on loan, someone is borrowing it.
Both paintings are on loan from the city museum.
For example, you can always take out on loan any video you like from our centre.
to hate someone or something
I absolutely loathe swimming.
Even those obscure and never-pay-attention subjects that we totally loathe might give us food for thought regardless of what we will end up studying.
a feeling of hating someone or something
All I feel for him is loathing.
Both characters are torn between their feelings of awe and loathing for India, although Olivia's relationship with this country is one of submission and devotion.
an area inside the main entrance of a building
the hotel lobby
I'll meet you in the lobby at 5.30.
He unpacked his things, took a shower and went to the lobby to wait for Hanna.
to try to persuade the government or an official group to do something
Small businesses have lobbied hard for/against changes in the tax laws.
Local residents lobbied to have the factory shut down.
They have been lobbying Congress to change the legislation concerning guns.
They have become so powerful through their vast sales and profits that they can effectively lobby for their points of view.
relating to an area near you
a local accent
local issues
a local newspaper/radio station
Most of the local population depend on fishing for their income.
Our children all go to the local school.
Many local shops will be forced to close if the new supermarket is built.
You could go walking in the countryside, try water sports, enjoy the local food (especially the "galettes") and visit the city of Rennes.
someone who lives in the area you are talking about
The locals are very upset about the new law.
However, it is inadvisable to confront the locals with prejudices or exaggerated expectations they cannot live up to.
to be in a particular place
Our office is located in the city centre.
It's located in the heart of Puebla and it's really wonderful.
to find or discover the exact position of something
Police are still trying to locate the suspect.
He tried to locate the wall and took a calm step forward.
a place or position
The hotel is in a lovely location overlooking the lake.
A map showing the location of the property will be sent to you.
The village is in a peaceful location, within minutes of a safe lake, and an hour from a pretty town.
If a film or television programme is made on location, it is made at a place suitable to the story.
The movie was shot on location in Kenya.
We can't help mentioning the nice shots on location.
the thing that is used to close a door, window, etc., and that needs a key to open it
I heard someone turn a key in the lock.
safety locks
Thieves got in by smashing the lock off the door.
I put my £10 in the drawer with a lock the day before.
to fasten something with a key, or to be fastened with a key
Don't forget to lock the door when you go out.
If you shut the door, it will lock automatically.
Yesterday at about 11.10 p.m. I went to lock my garage.
to put something or someone in a place or container that is fastened with a key
She locked herself in her bedroom.
Most of my jewellery is locked away in a safe.
When Mary asked her not to reveal the secret, Pat ran away, went home, and locked herself in her bedroom.
the space under the roof of a house or other building
Our loft is full of junk.
Everything was thoroughly searched, from the cellar to the loft.
a thick piece of tree trunk or branch, especially one cut for burning on a fire
Let's put another log on the fire.
People used to cook with fire logs but they don't do it any more.
to connect a computer to a system of computers by typing your name and often a password, usually so that you can start working
I tried to log in as normal but nothing happened.
Well you need a computer and you have to log on to the Internet.
to stop a computer being connected to a computer system, usually when you want to stop working
We were all asked to log off while some changes were made to the system.
I know that most students just log off the computers, but they are still switched on and use energy.
the use of reason, or the science of using reason
I fail to see the logic behind his argument.
If prices go up, wages will go up too - that's just logic.
There's no logic in the decision to reduce staff when orders are the highest for years.
It lacked any logic or interest for me.
using reason
a logical choice/conclusion
When someone is logical and smart and loves life, he is not in danger when he drives a car.
in a way that is logical
Her ideas were clear and logically presented.
Her intuition failed her, and neither could she find the answer logically.
a design or symbol used by a company to advertise its products
a corporate logo
That strange-looking man was wearing a black jumper, blue jeans, black trainers and a black baseball cap with the white Nike logo.
the state of being lonely
I wasn't prepared for the loneliness of living in a small village.
Frankenstein is a book that explores the feelings of loneliness and solitude, and the consequences that this has on human relationships.
unhappy because you are not with other people
She gets lonely now that all the kids have left home.
the lonely life of a farmer
If they had not been there, I would have been very lonely.
A lonely place is a long way from where people live.
a lonely stretch of Arizona highway
In this lonely place strange things happened.
continuing for a large amount of time
a long film/meeting
I've been waiting a long time.
It's a long time since I worked there.
Apparently the sessions are an hour long.
I want to eat food from Brazil because I have lived in England for a long time and I am missing food from my country.
having a large distance from one end to the other
long hair
long legs
a long dress
There was a long queue at the post office.
We're still a long way from the station.
I like to go for a long walk.
describes a piece of writing which has a lot of pages or words
a long letter/book/report
Thank you for your long letter, it was very interesting.
for a long time
I'm just writing a letter but it won't take long.
How long have you been in England?
Don't rush - take as long as you like.
I've known her longer than you have.
I won't be staying much longer.
It doesn't last longer than 45 minutes.
for the whole day
We've been walking all day long.
Oh, I almost forgot to tell you about my Japanese stones where I listen to music all day long.
used to say that something must happen before something else can happen
I can come as long as I can leave by 4.00.
Bring your friends by all means - just so long as I know how many are coming.
The colours I wear are not important, as long as I don't wear any pink clothes. I really dislike that colour.
in the past but not now
The cinema is no longer used.
She doesn't work here any longer.
The main reason is that my wife got pregnant and therefore a one-bedroom house is no longer suitable for us.
soon
They'll be home before very long.
Before long they realized that most of the animals which lived there could be big business in Europe.
for a long time
Have you been waiting for long?
There're departures every half an hour to the city centre, so you won't have to wait for long.
If something happened long ago, it happened a great amount of time ago.
I think we met once, long ago.
It was not long ago that I last saw him.
Not so long ago, you could ring each Dutch doorbell of your choice at 6 pm and you'd find the whole family gathered around the kitchen table, having their supper.
a long period of time before something
I was a vegetarian long before I met Sally.
The cups belonged to my family long before I was born and the fact they are a part of my family tradition makes them valuable in my eyes.
to want something very much
She longed to see him again.
Of course I longed for my home and missed my relatives and friends, but I was so excited by everything the exchange could offer that I cannot recall any really sad day during my stay in Germany.
travelling or communicating between two places that are a long way apart
a long-distance runner
long-distance lorry drivers
a long-distance phone call
I've also made some long-distance calls which I'd like to pay for.
having a long life
To what do you attribute your longevity?
The problem does not end there, as the unemployed present a strain on the social welfare systems, which are already overtaxed due to sinking birth numbers and rising longevity.
a feeling of wanting something or someone very much
a longing for his homeland
He gazed at her, his eyes full of longing.
These elements, together with the longing for independence, can help you reach your goal.
continuing for a long period of time
Theirs was a long-lasting friendship.
People with these qualities are most able to provide me with what I like: fun, attention, good conversations and long-lasting relationships.
having continued for a long time
a long-running musical
their long-running dispute
The long-running Friends series are finally over.
continuing a long time into the future
long-term unemployment
long-term care for the seriously ill
the long-term effects of the drug
I was deeply impressed by the long-term cooperation between the zoo and the school.
over a period of time that continues a long way into the future
This decision may make financial sense now, but it will have serious consequences in the long term.
I understand this is a big investment but I can see the advantage of easier communication and a better environment. In the long term this will be more economical for us.
describes someone who has been in a particular position for a long period
A long-time friend of the chairman said she had expected the resignation.
I have now known her for 13 years both as a student and on a familiar level, since I am a long-time friend of her husband's.
to turn your eyes in the direction of something or someone so that you can see them
Look! There's grandma.
They looked at the picture and laughed.
Look at all this rubbish on the floor.
She looked up from her book and smiled at me.
I looked out (of) the window.
Look over there - there's a rainbow!
I like walking around these lakes and looking at the ducks and swans.
to try to find someone or something
I'm looking for my keys.
I've looked everywhere but I can't find my glasses.
I looked down the list but couldn't see his name.
I am looking for a new T-shirt.
used to describe the appearance of a person or thing
That food looks nice.
You look tired, my love.
Do I look silly in this hat?
She looks Italian or Spanish.
Well, the paint I am going to use is light pink as it will look nice.
used to describe the appearance of a person or thing
He looked like a drug addict.
That building looks just like a giant gherkin.
It was dark on the street but I remember what the thief looked like.
used to say that something is likely to happen
It looks like there'll only be three of us going on Sunday.
It looks as if it's going to rain.
It's cold and I think I will have to buy an umbrella because it looks as if it'll rain.
used to describe the appearance of a person or thing
Bradley looked as if he had seen a ghost.
She looked as though she was going to cry.
The dress is made of bright blue silk, it's long and looks as if it was made for a queen.
to face a particular direction
The garden looks south.
This window looks out onto the lake.
I would like a room which looks out onto the garden.
to find good things in a bad situation
Look on the bright side - no one was badly hurt.
I am quite self-confident and I usually look on the bright side, as I am not keen on pessimistic thoughts.
to plan to do something
I'm looking to start my own business.
when you look at someone or something
She gave him a look of real dislike.
Take a (good) look at this picture and see if you recognize anyone.
Can I have a look at your dictionary?
I went to have a look and I was very surprised!
when you look for someone or something
I had another look for the watch, but couldn't find it.
Should I have a look for cheap hotels?
an expression on someone's face
She had a worried look about her.
She gave me a questioning look.
China was attacking France, everyone started screaming, and the look of panic on my history teacher's face was almost funny.
the appearance of someone or something
They liked the look of the hotel, but it was too expensive.
I don't like the look of that fence.
We have to make it more attractive to them by improving the look of our town.
a style or fashion
thenew look for the summer
Shopping ... gives you a feeling of being in another world, a world where dreams can come true - dreams of becoming more beautiful by buying new clothes and accessories for the new look you have always wanted.
a person's appearance, especially how attractive they are
I was attracted to him because of his looks.
At last, she arrived in time for the ball held that night, and everybody was charmed by her looks and manners.
to appear as a large, sometimes frightening shape
Dark storm clouds loomed on the horizon.
Situated in the heart of Salford's concrete slum, the old soap factory loomed before him.
If an unpleasant event looms, it is likely to happen soon.
The threat of closure looms over the workforce.
Unless steps are taken soon, the future will continue to loom less assured.
If something looms large, it becomes very important and often causes worry.
The issue of pay will loom large at this year's conference.
It was, she dreaded to admit, a sense of regret. She shock her head as if doing so shooed the feeling away. On the contrary, however, it was looming large while she was stamping along the busy street.
large and not fitting tightly
Wear comfortable, loose clothing to your exercise class.
I even like wearing loose T-shirts.
not firmly fixed in position
Her hair was hanging loose about her shoulders.
The nails in the bridge had worked themselves loose.
There were some loose wires hanging out of the wall.
I now wear my long hair loose and I have dyed it black.
not tightly controlled or not exact
It's a fairly loose adaptation of the novel.
It's only a loose translation of the poem.
to become loose or make something loose
He loosened his tie.
Do we not want our children to be as happy as possible? By loosening their ropes, we enable them to choose the way most suitable for themselves.
a large vehicle used for transporting goods
a long-distance lorry driver
When the lorries of the Recycling Service don't come on time, there are piles of papers and plastic bottles outside our block of flats.
to not be able to find someone or something
I've lost my passport.
She's always losing her car keys.
I think that I lost my ring.
to stop having something that you had before
At least 600 staff will lose their jobs if the firm closes.
He lost his leg in a car accident.
She lost her mother last year.
Actually, I lost my job last week.
to fail to succeed in a game, competition, etc.
If we lose this game, we're out of the championship.
They're losing 3-1.
They lost to Arsenal.
Everyone hates losing an argument.
They hadn't lost an election in fifteen years.
We were in the final, but we lost it.
to have less of something than you had before
I'm trying to lose weight.
He's losing his hair.
She lost a lot of blood in the accident.
to lose your memory/sight
I want to borrow your bicycle because I am getting fat and I need it to do some training to lose weight.
to die
Millions of young men lost their lives in the war.
A man who has experience after a lot of years driving is less likely to lose his life in an accident than another new driver.
to stop feeling something good
I'm rapidly losing interest in the whole subject.
He kept on crying and I lost my patience.
Moreover the microphone suddenly wouldn't work anymore, and even though I desperately tried to speak up, people began to lose interest in both my speech and me and simply started to talk to each other instead.
to suddenly become angry
The children behaved so badly that I lost my temper.
Yesterday, I must confess, I lost my temper with my son.
to waste something such as time or an opportunity
Four million hours were lost last year through stress-related illnesses.
We lost valuable time stuck in traffic.
Because of illness, she lost the chance of a place in the team.
You lose a lot of time when you have to find a place to park.
to stop communicating with someone, usually because they do not live near you now
We lost touch over the years.
When he went into the information centre, he saw Mary, who he used to go out with - for some reason, they had lost touch with each other.
to not know what is happening to someone or something any more
I've lost track of how much we've spent.
Time passed like an arrow and they lost track of time until they realised it started to getting dark.
to become unable to speak, often because of an illness
She had a bad cold and was losing her voice.
I immediately became agitated and at the precise moment of my speech I lost my voice completely.
to make less money than you spend
He lost a lot of money on the house sale.
Her company lost over £2 million last year.
The reported information about the income was completely wrong; in fact, the target figure we had set has been fully reached and this obviously means that the hospital didn't lose any money.
to stop being calm in a difficult situation
I saw the fire and I lost my head.
She has never lost her head in dangerous situations and she always knows what to do.
to suddenly become very angry
She lost her cool and started shouting.
to forget how many of something there is
I've lost count of the number of times she's arrived late.
I lost count of how often I heard this sentence when I used to work for a drug company.
to do something so that people stop respecting you
The party has lost face with the public by abandoning their original policy on education.
However, many popular people like Pierce Brosnan managed to keep their lives out of the press and yet be present to meet public demand without losing face.
to stop believing that you can succeed
Don't lose heart, there'll be plenty more chances for promotion.
In that way, we learn to deal with our problems and not to lose heart.
to forget about an important idea or fact because you are thinking too much about other, less important things
We mustn't lose sight of the original aims of this project.
Little do we realize that in the process we lose sight of the fundamentals, which in this case is the protection of our environment.
to worry about something
I know she's angry with me, but I'm not losing any sleep over it.
There was just one house, a magnificent mansion behind a high fence, that bothered me a bit. No-one from there came to meet me. But in the hassle of the first few weeks I was simply too busy to lose any sleep over it.
when you no longer have something or have less of something
Many parents feel a sense of loss when their children leave home.
He suffered a gradual loss of memory.
There will be substantial job losses if the factory closes down.
blood/hair/weight loss
I had been working on this manuscript for an article in a computer magazine on the topic "How to prevent loss of data if the electric power is cut off."
the death of a person
They never got over the loss of their son.
And so John remained alone, haunted by the terrible loss.
when a business spends more money than it earns
The company announced a pre-tax loss of three million pounds.
It suffered a major loss over a period of 15 years, roughly from 1978 to 1994.
a disadvantage caused by someone leaving an organization
It would be a great loss to the department if you left.
It will be a great loss for Germany when he retires.
not knowing what to do
I'm at a loss to explain his disappearance.
And now I am competely at a loss what to write next.
not knowing what to say
The question was unexpected and she was temporarily at a loss for words.
If it was James I would be at a loss for words, I didn't know what to tell him.
not knowing where you are or where you should go
I got lost in the London Underground.
You look lost - can I help you?
I hope you don't get lost!
If something is lost, no one knows where it is.
Things tend to get lost when you move house.
Lost: a black cat with white paws
Mikey turned up with the lost book.
He went to that tree and there it was, the lost suitcase.
to be unable to live or work without someone or something
She's lost without her computer.
It showed us how we would be lost without this transportation system.
not knowing what to do in a new situation
It was his first day in the office and he seemed a bit lost.
I would recommend a visit to a restaurant or the theatre the first evening. I can imagine that some of the guests felt a bit lost.
to be so surprised, angry or moved by something that you do not know what to say
This prize is such an honour and so unexpected - I am lost for words.
I was so enraged that I was lost for words for quite a long time.
a large amount or number of people or things
She eats lots of fruit.
There were a lot of people there.
I've got a lot to do today.
He does lots of travelling in his job.
We met lots of people on holiday.
Do you want some food? There's lots in the fridge.
She has a lot of flowers in her room.
very much or very often
Your sister looks a lot like you.
I'm feeling a lot better today.
He looks a lot older than his wife.
We used to go there a lot.
I like to study a lot.
a way of making money by selling numbered tickets to people who then have a chance of winning a prize if their number is chosen
We always do the lottery on Saturdays.
I got a phone call from a lottery company and they said I had won the lottery with a 100 million dollar prize.
making a lot of noise
a loud explosion/noise/voice
I heard a loud bang and then saw black smoke.
We were dancing then the police arrived, because of the loud music.
loudly
Could you speak a little louder, please?
I cried louder.
If you say or read something out loud, you say or read it so that other people can hear you.
I had to read the essay out loud in front of the whole school.
She wouldn't accept it so I read it out loud for her to hear: "Director, Jason Meyer, and producer, Sami Woods, are receiving...".
in a way that makes a lot of noise
They were all talking loudly.
The only thing is that he fell asleep at the end of the day and he was snoring loudly!
a room in a hotel, theatre, airport, etc. where people can relax or wait
Drinks were served in the lounge.
In the central lounge you'll find an automatic bus ticket machine.
to like something very much
She loves animals.
I absolutely love chocolate.
He really loves his job.
I love swimming.
Love it or hate it, reality TV is here to stay.
I love skiing.
to like a friend or a person in your family very much
I'm sure he loves his kids.
I love my son and my girlfriend.
to like someone very much and have romantic or sexual feelings for them
Last night he told me he loved me.
I've only ever loved one woman.
Stan is from Poland. He is my husband. I love him.
used to say that you would very much like something
I'd love some chocolate right now!
I'd love to be an actor.
I'd love some chops and beer.
used to say that you would very much like to do something that someone has suggested
"Would you like to come to the concert with us?" "I'd love to."
We'd love to go to the beach - thanks for inviting us.
Yes, I'd love to come with you.
something you write at the end of a letter, email, etc. to a friend or someone in your family
See you at Christmas. Love, Kate.
All my love, Louise
Lots of love,
Love from Mum FRIENDS/FAMILY
when you like a friend or person in your family very much
Nothing is as strong as the love you have for your kids.
"I'm seeing Laura next week." "Oh, please give her my love".
Give my love to your family. All the best, ROMANCE/SEX
when you like someone very much and have romantic or sexual feelings for them
He's madly in love with her.
She fell in love with her friend's brother.
"I've been seeing him over a year now." "Is it love?"
How's your love life these days?
I fell in love with him.
a person that you love and feel attracted to
He was the love of my life.
She was my first love.
It was from the love of my life.
something that interests you a lot
I don't share my boyfriend's love of sport.
Music is one of her greatest loves.
Both of them symbolize courage, love of justice, fight for freedom, which makes them look like heroes.
an activity that is hard work but which you do because you enjoy it
He prefers to paint the house himself - it's a real labour of love.
Being a musician is a labour of love.
pleasant or enjoyable
a lovely meal/evening
We had a lovely time in Greece.
It was a lovely day and a nice party.
beautiful
She has lovely eyes.
You look lovely in that dress.
Thank you for the lovely present.
My favourite birthday present was a lovely bag.
If two people are lovers, they have a sexual relationship but they are not married.
They were friends before they became lovers.
She had a string of lovers before her marriage finally broke up.
I was reading "Romeo and Juliet" by W. Shakespeare when I suddenly decided to leave and visit Verona, the lovers' city.
someone who is very interested in books, cats, dogs, etc.
an opera lover
Brazil is a very big country and perfect for nature lovers.
small in amount, size or level
The temperature is very low for the time of year.
The big supermarket offers the lowest prices in town.
These people are living on relatively low incomes.
a low-fat diet
low-alcohol beer
Vegetables are generally low in calories.
Turn the oven to a low heat.
There were beautiful clothes for low prices.
not high
a low fence
low ceilings
When I stay at home, I wear jeans, t-shirts, and trainers or low shoes.
of bad quality, especially when referring to something that is not as good as it should be
low standards/quality
I have rather a low opinion of him.
However, it is necessary to add that few people could afford much food because of poverty and the low quality of life which they had.
deep or quiet
a low voice
a low note
Right after I had said that, I noticed that someone was pointing at me with a gun, and a low voice said: 'If I were you I wouldn't move, follow me'.
not important or powerful
He held a low rank in the army.
New furniture is a very low priority at the moment.
Luminaries claim that the team spirit and the sense of competition have vanished, and it has been proven that exercise has a low priority compared to other recreational activities.
unhappy and without energy
Illness of any sort can leave you feeling low.
She never feels low and I am in high spirits being with her because she has got a sense of humour.
to try not to be noticed
She has kept a low profile since the divorce.
Finally, I believe that the best way to handle these issues is to try to keep a low profile at all times and to remain indifferent to gossip.
at or to a small amount or level
Temperatures can fall as low as -20 degrees.
Can you turn the heating a bit lower?
The lights are down low.
to move something into a low position
They lowered the coffin into the grave.
Heavily pregnant by now, she lowered herself carefully into the chair.
He lowered his eyes in embarrassment when he saw me.
But when she asked who wanted to be a cleaner, nobody raised his hand and I felt so ashamed that I lowered my head.
to reduce the amount or level of something
Interest rates have been lowered again.
Boil for 5 minutes, then lower the heat and simmer for half an hour.
Please lower your voice.
We will never lower our standards.
This should be done by lowering taxes and preparing other incentives for potential investors.
always liking and supporting someone or something, sometimes when other people do not
Jack has been a loyal worker in this company for almost 50 years.
When all her other friends deserted her, Steve remained loyal.
She's very loyal to her friends.
One of the most beautiful things in the world is true and loyal friendship.
the quality of being loyal
His loyalty was never in question.
Her loyalty to the cause is impressive.
What I can say is that pets are ideal when they obey and show loyalty to you.
good and bad things caused by chance and not by your own actions
It was just luck that I asked for a job at the right time.
She wears a charm that she thinks brings her good luck.
He seems to have had a lot of bad luck in his life.
So your interview's tomorrow? Good luck!
The best of luck in/with your exams!
Good luck to you.
success
Have you had any luck with booking your flight?
He tried to get into Harvard but with no luck.
Then I met this gorgeous woman and I couldn't believe my luck.
As you might suppose, I couldn't believe my luck when I found out that I'd won first prize in the competition.
to be lucky or to be able to have or do what you want
"Do you have any tuna sandwiches?" "You're in luck - there's one left."
I was in luck, because my friend, who lived in the same area, had his private car and gave me a lift every day.
something good that happens to you by chance
He had exactly the part that I needed so that was a stroke of luck.
After a one-hour interview she was asked whether she could be starting work the very next day. A real stroke of luck.
in a lucky way
Luckily, I had some money with me.
Luckily, the weather was nice.
having good things happen to you by chance
"I'm going on holiday." "Lucky you!"
The lucky winner will be able to choose from three different holidays.
They're lucky to have such a nice office to work in.
He's lucky that he wasn't fired.
It sounds as if you had a lucky escape.
We'll be lucky if we get there by midnight at this rate.
Maybe we will be lucky and have good weather.
If an object is lucky, some people believe that it gives you luck.
I chose six - it's my lucky number.
I lost my lucky pencil.
If something is lucrative, it makes a lot of money.
a lucrative contract/job/offer
It is no secret that many youngsters want a lucrative job, which would allow them to make money hand over fist.
bags and cases that you carry with you when you are travelling
Never leave your luggage unattended.
hand luggage
So I left all my luggage in the hall and went to the toilet.
a piece of a solid substance with no particular shape
a lump of coal
You don't want lumps in the sauce.
He bent down to pick it up and saw it was a lump of concrete.
to make you feel such strong emotion that you want to cry
It was a very moving speech, and it brought a lump to my throat.
This devastating image brought a lump to John's throat.
a meal that is eaten in the middle of the day
What's for lunch?
I'm sorry, Joanna isn't here at the moment, she's (gone) out to/gone to lunch.
We met in Bristol, and we had beer and a light lunch.
the time when lunch is eaten
It'll be lunchtime soon.
Please telephone me at home at lunchtime.
one of the two organs inside your chest that are used for breathing
lung cancer
People suffering from lung diseases go there to be cured.
to persuade someone to go somewhere or do something by offering them something exciting
It seems that he was lured into a trap.
They had been lured to the big city by the promise of high wages.
Some of the children are lured to the big cities, in expectation of work.
the power to attract people
the lure of fame/power/money
Some have offered the lure of losing weight within a very few days, by the means of miraculously easy techniques.
very comfortable and expensive
They have a very luxurious house.
luxurious fabrics
As far as the hotel is concerned, I feel that it wasn't a luxurious one.
great comfort or pleasure from expensive or beautiful things
a luxury cruise
a luxury hotel
to live in luxury
I'm staying in a luxury hotel overlooking the sea.
something which gives you a lot of pleasure but which you cannot often do or have
A day off work is such a luxury.
I think that to have this museum is a luxury for our city and we must visit it.
something expensive which is pleasant to have but is not necessary
luxuries, such as champagne and chocolate
I like to buy myself little luxuries from time to time.
At the time, the majority of consumers had no money to spend on luxuries.
the words of a song
I've downloaded the lyrics of that song you like.
One of the greatest of these musicians is Caetano Veloso, whose lyrics and melodies touch the hearts and souls of music lovers in Brazil and all around the world.
a piece of equipment with several moving parts which uses power to do a particular type of work
a washing machine
a coffee machine
Eggs are sorted into different sizes by machine.
I want to sell the washing machine.
machines, often large machines
industrial/farm machinery
The use of heavy machinery is more and more frequent and consequently the amount of petrol used is higher.
angry
Are you still mad at me?
Kerry got really mad with Richard for not doing the washing up.
Dad'll go mad when he finds out you took the car.
He's always complaining and it makes me so mad.
My little brother drives me mad sometimes!
I'm not mad because you missed my party.
stupid or crazy
You're mad to walk home alone at this time of night.
He must be mad spending so much money on a T-shirt.
Some of the things she does are completely mad.
But then my other friends came to where we were and said the same thing. I think they were all mad.
to love someone or something
They only met a month ago but he's mad about her.
Jo's mad about skiing.
You know, I hate pink, but my mother is really mad about pink.
mentally ill
I think I must be going mad.
He went mad with grief.
Do I look like some mad old woman in this hat?
The movie was about a guy that was mad.
a lot
The band practised like mad before their first concert.
It was raining like mad, so we were wet to the skin.
a formal and polite way of speaking to a woman
Can I help you, Madam?
An old woman came in the shop and quietly put my suitcase near to me and she said "Excuse me, Madam, it's your suitcase. I saw somebody take it.
a way of beginning a formal letter to a woman whose name you do not know
Dear Madam, I am writing to inform you...
Dear Sir or Madam, With reference to your newspaper report of 17th July, I am writing to correct some points in this report.
a thin book published every week or month, that has shiny, colourful pages with articles and pictures
She has written articles for several women's magazines.
a fashion/celebrity magazine
At the party, Maria, Paula, Marissa and I read magazines, talked about boys and played games.
special powers that can make things happen that seem impossible
Do you believe in magic?
As if by magic, the car changes into a boat when it hits the water.
My favourite was the new Harry Potter book: "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone". I really like this book because of the magic and because of the adventure that it contains.
tricks that are done to entertain people, such as making things appear and disappear and pretending to cut someone in half
He's a comedian who also does magic.
There is a magic show every day, I think you must go there once.
a quality that makes something or someone seem special or exciting
No one could fail to enjoy the magic of this wonderful city.
But everyone was thinking of the elections and couldn't feel the "magic" of Christmas Day...
relating to magic
a magic show
I'll show you a magic trick.
After that a magician showed us a lot of magic tricks.
with special powers that make impossible things happen
The witch put a magic spell on the prince and turned him into a frog.
There's no magic solution to the problem.
special, beautiful or exciting
It was a magical night.
The setting for the concert was quite magical.
I think you should go to Cracow - a beautiful, old city with original, historical monuments, works of art and many cafes and jazz clubs with a magical atmosphere.
with special powers
magical powers
We cherish the belief in a magical force outside ourselves which sooner or later will deliver us these dreams.
a type of judge who deals with less serious crimes
The case will be heard by a magistrate.
In public life women have reached positions as magistrates, councillors and ministers.
with the power of a magnet
a magnetic field
The worst of all is that even little children of the age of nine or ten years old now have their own mobile phone which makes them totally irresponsible and especially affected by the magnetic energy the phone has, which is very harmful to children.
having a character that attracts people to you
He has a magnetic personality.
Ivan has a magnetic personality, which draws people to him.
very good or very beautiful
a magnificent view
They live in a magnificent old house.
He gave a magnificent performance.
Next, we went to a forest. In the middle was a lake and the sight was magnificent.
extremely well
I thought she coped magnificently.
This small drawback did not affect either the dance display or the horse show, which were both performed magnificently.
letters and parcels that are brought by post
She spent the morning reading and answering her mail.
I check my mail every day and I hoped to have a letter from you sooner than this.
the system by which letters and parcels are taken and brought
All of our customers will be contacted by mail.
The book came in yesterday's mail.
Dear Carol, I've forgotten my palm top at your house, you can send it to me by mail.
email
You've got mail.
I hope you are free. If you want to change the time, please send me a mail.
most important or largest
The main airport is 15 miles from the capital.
One of the main reasons I came to England was to study the language.
You'll find the main points of my proposal in the report.
Our main aim/objective is to improve the company's productivity.
The main problem in the health service is lack of resources.
However, the main reason, I must admit, was that I wanted to meet new people, make new friends and the college is the best place for meeting interesting people.
the most important fact in a situation
You're happy and that's the main thing.
The main thing is to be happy and to love yourself.
the largest or most important part of a meal
I had salmon for my main course.
The main course could be fish or meat with vegetables.
mostly or to a large degree
The waitresses are mainly French.
They argued that the tax will mainly benefit the rich.
I often wear jeans, mainly blue jeans.
considered normal, and having or using ideas, beliefs, etc. which are accepted by most people
This is the director's first mainstream Hollywood film.
The media source and its credibility play a major role in determining the objectivity and realistic portrayal although there have been cases where even mainstream publications have participated in manipulative alterations.
to make a situation or activity continue in the same way
The army has been brought in to maintain order in the region.
We have standards to maintain.
The two countries have maintained close links over the years.
To sum up, I consider that although the role of footballers is less important than the need for doctors, they should not be paid less than doctors, in order to maintain the high quality of this game.
to keep a road, machine, building, etc. in good condition
A large house costs a lot to maintain.
The roads generally are very poorly maintained.
Due to my education and my experience in maintaining machines, I am sure that I can do a good job in your club.
to say that you are certain something is true
Throughout his prison sentence Dunn has always maintained his innocence.
He maintains that he has never seen the woman before.
Moreover, sceptics maintain that the lack of facilities and jobs leads to the countryside being "abandoned".
the work needed to keep a road, building, machine, etc. in good condition
car maintenance classes
Old houses require too much maintenance.
I need a garden that's very low maintenance.
Many people can't afford to have a car as maintenance is very expensive.
more important, bigger or more serious than others of the same type
This is a major problem for people in this region.
Sugar is a major cause of tooth decay.
America has played a major role in the peace process.
Citrus fruits are a major source of vitamin C.
There has been a major change in attitudes recently.
Some major changes are really necessary.
more than half of a group of people or things
The majority of our employees have university degrees.
A large majority of people approve of the death sentence.
The vast majority of smokers claim they would like to give up.
In Britain women are in the majority.
the majority decision
However the majority of the teachers found that buying movies was not a good idea.
to produce or create something
Shall I make some coffee?
He made us some lunch.
She makes all her own clothes.
He works for a company that makes garden furniture.
John Huston made some great films.
You can make a quick snack, for example a sandwich.
to be produced from a substance or material
Butter is made from milk.
There were bowls made of pure gold.
They make furniture out of steel.
It is made of gold.
to perform an action
I must make a telephone call.
Have you made a doctor's appointment?
Have you made a decision about your job yet?
Someone's made a mistake.
Can I make a suggestion?
He's not making any effort.
She made a short speech.
Shall we make a start on the work?
You might need a rubber if you make a mistake.
to take action so that you are certain that something happens
I'll just make sure I've turned the oven off.
Make sure you're home by midnight.
So please make sure that you wear old clothes.
to cause something to happen or cause a particular state
What made you change your mind?
He really makes me laugh.
This photograph makes me look about 80!
It makes me so angry when he says that.
This heat makes me very tired.
It's so funny and it makes me laugh.
to force someone or something to do something
I made him tidy his room.
You can't make him go if he doesn't want to.
I could make him wait a little.
to make a decision
I haven't made up my mind whether to apply for the job yet.
They couldn't make their minds up about where to go on holiday.
The place was so dirty that I made up my mind to change it by buying something useful.
to manage to arrive at a place
I'm afraid I can't make the meeting this afternoon.
She made it to the airport just in time to catch her plane.
My car is broken so I can't make it.
to show with your face that you do not like someone or something
Joe made a face when he saw what was for lunch.
Making a face, I slapped my forehead.
to begin to know and like someone
He finds it difficult to make friends.
He's made friends with a boy in his class called Alex.
Although I didn't know anyone in this club, I immediately made friends with Maria and Rosaria.
to earn
She makes around £50 000 a year as a doctor.
How do you make a living as a painter?
Both companies have made huge profits/losses.
The truth is that our grandparents worked very hard to make a living.
to put sheets and covers on a bed or to make the sheets and covers on a bed neat
Have you made the bed?
The kids don't always have time to make their beds before school.
Driving through the mountains we didn't reach the cabin until late at night. So we just made the beds and went off to sleep.
to take full advantage of something because it may not last long
We should make the most of this good weather.
Remember, always try to make the most of your life.
to try to be positive about a situation you do not like but cannot change
Our hotel room is pretty small, but we'll just have to make the best of it.
Unfortunately I don't have very much spare time so we will have to arrange it carefully in order to make the best of your time in London.
to improve a situation (a lot)
Exercise can make a big difference to your health.
It wouldn't make a big difference in my life, but it would be good.
to make a situation more difficult, unpleasant, etc.
To make matters worse, our car broke down!
To make matters worse, the newspaper said they only played for thirty-five minutes.
to make someone look stupid intentionally
She was always trying to make a fool out of me in front of my friends.
He thought I had tried to make a fool of him but no, I was really desperate to get him as my boyfriend.
to behave in a silly or embarrassing way
I got very excited and made a fool of myself.
I had to leave that shop in full embarrassment and I also made a fool of myself.
to make a joke about someone or something in an unkind way
The other children at school used to make fun of his hair.
I didn't want to tell other people because I didn't want them to make fun of me.
to have a meaning or reason that you can understand
He's written me this note but it doesn't make any sense.
Eighty kilometres in the mountains just to look at views doesn't make any sense to me.
to be a good thing to do
It makes sense to buy now while prices are low.
Therefore it makes sense to use the innovations.
to leave enough time to do something although you are busy
You have to make time to do your homework.
He never made enough time for family life.
I'm terribly sorry for not being able to make time to pick you up when you arrive.
to have the necessary qualities to become something
He would make a really nice dad.
I wouldn't make a very good lawyer.
It's a very exciting story - it would make a great film.
That is why I think I would make a good judge.
to be successful
Very few actors actually make it.
People who belong to this social group are much more determined to "make it" in life.
to have just enough money to pay for the things that you need
I've taken a second job in the evenings just to make ends meet.
Most students support themselves and barely make ends meet every month.
to not treat someone or something according to the usual rules
They don't usually take cheques, but they said they'd make an exception in my case.
Unfortunately, they were not flexible enough to make an exception, but on the other hand we know about the problem now and can avoid it in the future.
to behave in a relaxed way in a place, as if it was your own home
Take off your coat and make yourself at home.
Please relax and make yourself at home and help yourself.
to write down information about something
Let me make a note of your phone number.
After talking to other members, I have made a note of the main problems they considered the most urgent to be solved.
to be certain that you always do a particular thing
He made a point of learning all the names of his staff.
I was not expecting to meet him that night, because I thought he would be busy and not have time to talk to anyone, but being so special as he is, he made a point of talking to everybody.
to say something to someone in a way that they understand
I had a little difficulty making myself understood.
(Find enclosed a paper slip on which I have written a destination, number of tickets, etc., in the German language - use it just in case you can't make yourselves understood.)
to accept something that is less good than you would like
If we can't get a bigger room we'll have to make do with this.
Very calmly, he said "I am not going to put up with this. You might say that I am being too emotional, overreacting, whatever. But I will not come back until my piano has been returned. And let me make very clear that I will not make do with another instrument."
to talk or behave as if you do not think a problem is serious
I just laughed and tried to make light of it.
They project an optimistic image and make light of the troubles in life.
to remember that someone has a disadvantage which is not their fault when you are judging their behaviour or work
They made allowances for the fact that he was ill.
I would say Mr Stevens is a victim of his sense of duty, which makes him think of marriage as a traitor's act, but I don't know to what extent we should make allowances for his strong convictions.
If something makes your blood run cold, it frightens you very much.
I heard a tapping on the window which made my blood run cold.
This thought scared me and made my blood run cold.
to make you extremely angry
The way they have treated those people makes my blood boil.
Paul said something repulsive, with a cold light in his eyes, and it made her blood boil.
to make someone very happy
Go on, ask him to dance - it'll make his day!
Thank you for returning a lost diary; you have made my day!
to do sth badly/well, etc.
Paul's made a good job of painting the hall.
It's time my mother stopped worrying about me, after all, she's been preparing me all my life for this moment; it's finally time to see if she has made a good job of it.
to become famous or respected by a lot of people
He's been trying to make a name for himself in the music business.
Secondly, only a few sportsmen and sportswomen manage to make a name for themselves and get to the top.
to spoil something or make it seem stupid
Cuts to the text made a nonsense of the play.
It really makes a nonsense of our claim to be civilized when one thinks of all the poor, helpless people that live under deplorable conditions.
to cause problems by asking difficult questions or criticizing
He has earned a reputation for making waves during political campaigns.
If we don't want to regret anything, it is time we started to make waves by scrutinizing our history.
to be successful and make progress in your work
He managed to make his way in the film industry.
For each one of the famous sportsmen we recognise on television or in the newspapers, there are thousands of hopeful youngsters trying to make their way to the top.
to be replaced by someone or something
They knocked down the old houses to make way for a new hotel.
In the UK most high-streets already look very much the same and the local shops had to make way for big conglomerates.
to try to make something succeed, usually by working hard
They're determined to make a go of their business.
to have a strong effect on other people
The new police chief has really made his presence felt.
Before long a local bicycle gang was formed which would ride all over the village, through fields and gardens, making our presence felt.
to allow everyone to know about something
The government does not plan to make its findings public.
According to the scientific method of research, one should only make a discovery or conclusion public after deep testing and, even after that, this fact should never be taken as the most complete and definitive truth about any given subject.
to suddenly run fast in order to escape from somewhere
When he saw the open door, he made a run for it.
Anna and Tom decided to make a run for it.
to understand something that is difficult to understand
I'm trying to make sense of this document.
In fact, it's during his journey that Stevens begins to make sense of his life, of all the years he spent as a butler, as the 'perfect butler' who had to be loyal, silent and discreet.
to get a lot of public attention
The film made quite a splash in the US.
Moreover, it is no use splashing your money about on expensive gifts because this behaviour shows that you are not happy but your purpose is to make a splash.
to begin doing something
We need to make a start on (preparing) the brochure next week.
the person or company that makes a product
They're the biggest maker of fast-food products in the UK.
The makers of the film will want to see a decent return on their investment.
NISSAN is a famous Japanese car maker as you know.
coloured substances used on your face to improve or change your appearance
She wears a lot of make-up.
I put on a little eye make-up.
I got a dress and some make-up.
belonging to or relating to the sex that cannot have babies
a male colleague
a male giraffe
What percentage of the adult male population is unemployed?
I was there when I heard a male voice calling me.
a male person or animal
In 1987, 27 percent of adult males smoked.
I am a 30-year old Swedish male with a diploma in gardening.
intended to harm or upset someone
malicious gossip
If malicious teasing is tolerated, the whole school will be affected in a negative way and nobody will feel safe and self-confident.
a large, usually covered, shopping area where cars are not allowed
There are plans to build a new mall in the middle of town.
You can go shopping too because there is a nice shopping mall in Punta del Este.
an animal that feeds its babies on milk from its body
Dolphins and other sea mammals are being harmed by waste in the oceans.
To admire some of the sea mammals, like the dolphins and the whales, the best possible spot would be a small, isolated Aegean isle.
an adult male human being
a young/tall man
men and women
the man in the green jacket
the men's 400 metres champion
He's a very good man.
used to refer to both men and women
Man is still more intelligent than the cleverest robot.
Man must create the conditions so that animals can live, eat and procreate without strain.
to do something or deal with something successfully
Did you manage to get any bread?
Anyway, we managed to get there on time.
I only just managed to finish on time.
Will you be able to manage without me?
I can't manage all this work on my own.
Don't worry about us - we'll manage!
I even phoned the bus company but I didn't manage to get the CDs back.
to be in control of an office, shop, team, etc.
She used to manage the bookshop on King Street.
Has Tom had any experience of managing large projects?
He has managed the football team for the last five years.
It is a basketball club managed by the Director of my College.
to use or organize your time or money
He's no good at managing his money.
London is the third most expensive city in the world after Tokyo and N.Y, so you will have to manage your money quite carefully.
the control and organization of something
The company has suffered from several years of bad management.
a management training scheme
I also know the basic rules of good management.
someone in control of an office, shop, team, etc.
a bank manager
the production manager
She's the manager of the local sports club.
May I speak to the manager?
I will be the manager of the group.
a tropical fruit that has a green skin and is orange inside
We had ice cream with slices of mango.
So anyway I'm here at the beach sunbathing, having a lovely time under the mango trees.
all people, considered as a group
the history of mankind
Since the beginning of human civilization, mankind has never ceased to be mesmerized by folklore and stories of princes and princesses.
the way something happens or something is done
She stared at me in an accusing manner.
They dealt with the problem in a very efficient manner.
I don't know if you will follow my advice, but in whichever manner you spend the money, I hope you are glad.
polite ways of behaving with other people
It's bad manners to eat with your mouth open.
It's considered good manners in some societies to leave a little food on your plate.
Professional waiters are polite, tolerant and show good manners.
the way in which a person talks and behaves with other people
an aggressive/friendly/rude manner
As soon as he realized that we weren't going to buy anything, his whole manner changed.
I stared at him in anger, and the poor man, afraid of my rude manner, went out of the cafe.
a very large expensive house
The street is lined with enormous mansions where the rich and famous live.
Do you want to live in a grand mansion, an expensive flat or even a castle?
involving physical work rather than mental work
unskilled manual labour
750 manual workers will lose their jobs as a result of company cutbacks.
Computer-controlled robots are taking over manual jobs in many industries.
But, on the other hand, I sometimes think that this technology is the cause of the end of certain activities such as farming, or manual work.
done or operated with the hands
the manual sorting of letters
She tried to cure the pain in my knee by putting manual pressure on the joint.
It has both manual and automatic functions so it has a lot of possibilities.
a book that tells you how to use something or do something
You can download the manual for the computer if you need to.
Now I need to read some manuals at work.
to produce goods in large numbers, usually in a factory using machines
He works for a company that manufactures car parts.
The report notes a rapid decline in manufactured goods.
In the past I have worked in a company which manufactures computer games.
a company that produces goods in large numbers
a shoe manufacturer
Air pollution could be reduced if car manufacturers and companies made effective filters for car exhausts and factory chimneys.
the business of producing goods in large numbers
car/food manufacturing
the manufacturing of military equipment
the manufacturing industry
I am a translator for a manufacturing company.
a large number of
We've known them for many years.
I don't have many clothes.
Were there many people at the party?
Not many people have heard of him.
Many people would disagree with your ideas.
I've met him so many times and I still can't remember his name!
There are too many people applying for too few jobs.
We are doing so many interesting things at college.
used in questions to ask about the number of something
How many people are coming tonight?
How many students are there in each class?
How many hours do you work?
How many friends are coming?
used before a number or amount to show that the number or amount is large
As many as 6,000 people may have been infected with the disease.
As many as 90% of them went to the cinema on a regular basis in 1990, with the peak of a 95% attendance rate taking place in 1996.
a picture that shows where countries, towns, roads, rivers, etc. are
a map of the world
a map of Paris
a road map
I'm hopeless at map reading.
You can get a map of the city in the train station.
a running race of slightly over 26 miles (42.195 kilometres)
the London/New York marathon
She did/ran her first marathon in just under three hours.
How many hours of training per week are necessary if I want to run the marathon next year?
the third month of the year, after February and before April
26th March/March 26th
My birthday is on the eleventh of March.
He retired last March.
We're going to Australia next March.
We'll meet up in March.
Jessica was born on 21 March 1983 in Germany.
an organized walk by a group to show that they disagree with something
She's going on a march on Saturday in protest over the closure of the hospital.
There were protest marches and doctors, nurses, and the population forced the government to find a solution to the problem.
to walk through a public place as a group to show that you disagree with something
Around twenty thousand people marched through the city today to protest against the proposed new law.
This was a time of rupture, a scream for freedom, for love, and for peace. Young boys and girls marched against war and at the same time killed themselves with drugs.
When soldiers march, they walk together with regular steps.
The soldiers marched 90 miles in three days.
Even when the Romans marched against Greece, the Greek people couldn't unite against their new and powerful enemy and that's why they were conquered.
to walk somewhere fast, often because you are angry
She marched into my office demanding to know why I hadn't written my report.
She marched into the shop, got rid of the old lady and pestered the poor man until he agreed to give her the painting for £2982.
the difference between two amounts of time, money, etc., usually between people in a competition
The Senate approved the use of military force by a margin of 52 votes to 47.
They won by a narrow/wide margin.
We chose the second one, and, incredible as it may seem, we managed to win by a rather comfortable margin.
an empty space down the side of a page of writing
If I have any comments to make, I'll write them in the margin.
How could I describe the way she gently unfolded me, her care when drawing a margin on my left page, and how sorry she felt when her pen would ever scratch me?
the amount by which a calculation can be wrong but still produce a good result
a margin of error of 5 percent
It might be true that what is considered to be healthy or unhealthy changes over time, however, as science progresses the margin of error becomes smaller, and experts are then able to have a more accurate and precise say on all matters, including health.
the amount of profit that is made by a business after costs have been taken off
Higher fuel prices have reduced our margins.
The first toys, he sold with a small profit margin.
small and not important
a marginal effect/improvement
Over-grazing had the biggest impact in America, while deforestation caused only a marginal effect.
a number or letter that is written on a piece of work, saying how good the work is
What mark did you get in the biology exam?
She always gets good marks in English.
My father gave it to me because I had good marks at school last year.
a small area on the surface of something which is damaged, dirty or different in some way
There were dirty marks on her trousers where she had wiped her hands.
His fingers had left marks on the table's polished surface.
She had a red mark on her arm where she'd burnt herself.
But one day, when I was about ten years old, my father had hurt me on the face and I had a blue mark on my cheek.
a symbol which is used for giving information
I've put a mark on the map where I think we should go for a picnic.
What do those marks in the middle of the road mean?
As you walk through the valley, always following the red marks on the path, you will run into many interesting views: from climbers climbing the walls of the valley to waterfalls coming from the top of it.
a sign or proof that something exists
a mark of genius
There was a minute's silence everywhere as a mark of respect.
To succeed in a task that one has envisioned is a mark of success.
to do something that makes you successful or makes people notice you
He really made his mark on the company.
It teaches you that you don't have to be an Arnold Schwarzenegger to fight for your friends and really make your mark.
to check a piece of work or an exam, showing mistakes and giving a letter or number to say how good it is
I was up half the night marking exam papers.
You'll be marked down for poor spelling and punctuation.
Computers even sell tickets on stations, mark exam papers and help us to talk with people all over the world via the internet.
to show where something is by drawing or putting something somewhere
I've marked my street on the map for you.
X marks the spot where the treasure is buried.
On the map we have marked a black dot on the place where you will find the hotel.
to leave an area of dirt or damage on something
Make sure you don't mark the paintwork while you're moving the furniture around.
to represent or show a characteristic of a person or thing or feeling
The band's songs have always been marked by controversial lyrics.
The signing of the treaty marked a major milestone on the road to European union.
These books, most of which are very scientific, marked the beginning of a new era of enlightenment and technology.
a place where people go to buy or sell things, often outside
a fish/flower market
Fruit and vegetables are much cheaper from/in the market.
a craft market
Juan, My new house is in Balmoral Street, near the market.
all the people who want to buy a particular product, or the area where they live
Is there a market for second-hand jewellery?
Spain is our largest market.
They've increased their share of the market by 10% over the past year.
We had been researching the market for a year.
the number of people who are available and willing to work
More women have entered the labour market in recent years.
WELCOME TO THE JUNGLE best suits the situation of a young Pole entering the labour market.
the buying and selling of something
the insurance/personal computer market
Usually the enumeration of problems includes facts such as the difficulties that are caused in countries which run state-administered pension schemes, distortions in the age structure of developed countries, problems with the housing market, and so on.
an opportunity for a product or service that does not already exist
There's a gap in the market for a good fish shop.
I had nearly finished my study and had an idea to start a small software company, filling a gap in the market that was overlooked by the larger I.T. companies.
work that involves encouraging people to buy a product or service
a career in marketing/sales and marketing
I am studying marketing now so I will be available at the end of April.
the legal relationship of a man and a woman being a husband and a wife, or the ceremony where people become a husband and a wife
They had a long and happy marriage.
She went to live abroad after the break-up of her marriage.
She has two daughters by her first marriage.
a marriage certificate
After the marriage they go to a restaurant and eat something.
to begin a legal relationship with someone as their husband or wife
When are you getting married?
Chris and Debbie got married last summer.
Jamie's getting married to Laura.
You're getting married!
having a wife or husband
a married couple
How long was she married to Nick?
We've been happily married for twenty-five years.
She had an affair with a married man.
So they were boyfriend and girlfriend for 8 years and now they are married.
to begin a legal relationship with someone as their husband or wife
Will you marry me?
They don't have any plans to marry at present.
He never married.
Before we left the airport, John whispered in my ear "I'm going to marry her".
one of the traditional Japanese or Chinese skills of fighting, done as sports in many countries, for example karate or kung fu
Kuk Sool Won is a martial art from Korea.
I often practise martial arts on one of its grassy areas.
extremely good
I thought it was a marvellous film.
It took me ages to get it right, but it was a marvellous feeling when I did.
It's marvellous how everyone's tried to help.
We've achieved some marvellous results with this new drug.
The weather is marvellous, it's sunny and hot.
having qualities that are typical of men
a masculine appearance/voice
Life, nowadays is so hard for women: they have to cope with so many things every day, from their children to their job, not to mention housework, and the result of that is that women are more and more stressed, "masculine" I dare to say, and less and less "feminine".
a covering for the face which protects, hides or decorates the person wearing it
a gas mask
a surgical mask
The bank robbers wore masks throughout the raid.
Suddenly five men with masks jumped from nowhere into the bank and started to threaten us with their guns.
a large number or amount of something
He always has a mass of books and papers on his desk.
The forest is a mass of colour in autumn.
She had a mass of blond curls.
But people are bewildered because of a mass of information.
a lot
I've got masses of work to do.
Modern society is replacing the eliminated problems by masses of new ones.
having an effect on or involving a large number of people
They hope the new movie will appeal to a mass audience.
weapons of mass destruction
Opposition groups plan to stage mass demonstrations all over the country.
Television was a major step forward in the media world which combined the best of all the major mechanisms of mass communication.
the killing of a lot of people
He ordered the massacre of over 2,000 women and children.
It was mostly used for military purposes, thus provoking huge disasters and massacres.
very large in size, amount or number
They've got a massive house.
She died after taking a massive overdose of drugs.
If the drought continues, deaths will occur on a massive scale.
Sea pollution can be reduced if people take more care with oil tankers, to reduce massive oil spills.
a man who is in charge of a servant or a dog
With careful training, a dog will obey its master completely.
We must remember that we are masters of the car not the servants of the car.
a higher university qualification
to study for a Master's degree
I have recently done a Master's Degree in International Business and of course used my laptop.
someone who does something very well
He was a master of disguise.
Haydede had always been a master of the art of disguise and had a black belt in Tae Kwon Do; so the mission seemed quite easy.
a painting, book, or film that is generally considered to be of excellent quality
'Mona Lisa' is widely regarded as Leonardo da Vinci's masterpiece.
My choice was Chinua Achebe's masterpiece "Things fall apart".
a piece of thick material that you put on the floor, often in order to protect it
There's a mat by the door for you to wipe your feet on.
Last but not least, many Japanese style hotels and restaurants now have square holes in tatami (straw mat) rooms so that foreign visitors can comfortably stretch their legs under the low table without having to be seated on folded legs like Zen monks!
a sports competition in which two people or teams compete against each other
a football/tennis match
We won/lost the match.
I'd like to go with you to see a football match.
a thin, wooden stick which produces a flame when you rub one end of it against a rough surface
a box of matches
Finally I took all my courage and lit a match.
something which is similar to or combines well with something else
The curtains look great - they're a perfect match for the sofa.
Marine science would be a perfect match for people keen on natural sciences.
to not be as good as someone or something else
Gibson ran well but was no match for the young Italian.
This exhibition was specially striking because almost all the prints were from the very first series of vintage prints, in addition to being rare and also highly valued by collectors, even though their prices are no match for the Picasso.
to light a match in order to produce fire
I struck a match and lit the candle.
Their instant reaction was to park the car, put their raincoats on, get out and strike a few useless matches: they were their last light resource apart from the lightning in the sky and the weak headlights.
If two things match, they are the same colour or type.
I can't find anything to match my green shirt.
Your socks don't match.
They match a T-shirt that I bought last week.
to choose someone or something that is suitable for a particular person, activity or purpose
In the first exercise you have to match each capital city to its country.
to be as good as someone or something else
It would be difficult to match the service this airline gives to its customers.
In all these ways that your establishment failed to match the claims made for it in your publicity, we feel entitled to a full refund and I therefore urge you to improve the facilities of your museum or withdraw the advertisement to avoid further complaints.
a friend
We've been mates since our school days.
Pete was there with a couple of mates.
She's my best mate.
This man was going to his mate's funeral.
cloth for making clothes, curtains, etc.
Her dress was made of a soft, silky material.
I like buying designer clothes because they're made of good material.
documents, recorded information, etc. that are used for a particular activity
publicity material
She writes all her own teaching materials.
During the lesson we use a lot of useful and helpful material: tapes, video, and lots of different books.
a physical substance that has a particular quality or is used for a particular purpose
building materials, such as stone
Crude oil is used as the raw material for making plastics.
In addition, some waste materials are carried to the incinerator where they are burnt completely at very high temperatures.
the facts or ideas in a piece of writing
I'm collecting material for an article that I'm writing.
They are mainly interested in gathering material and data.
the belief that having money and possessions is the most important thing in life
She was saddened by the materialism of our society.
This phenomenon, called materialism, characterizes our society.
a person who thinks that having money and possessions is the most important thing in life
We are bringing up our children to be materialists.
Firstly, I would say that I am not a materialist but some things have a great value in my eyes and pictures are one of those things.
believing that having money and possessions is the most important thing in life
We live in a materialist society.
To be able to understand their labour we must separate ourselves from the materialist world we are living in.
believing that having money and possessions is the most important thing in life
a materialistic society
When parents put instead of their presence, presents, aren't we replacing love with materialism, where the children in turn become materialistic rather than loving?
relating to mathematics
a mathematical formula
Furthermore, he studied the human body and invented mathematical formulas to describe his findings.
the study of numbers, shapes and space using reason and usually a special system of symbols and rules for organizing them
a maths professor
It is my maths course work for my GCSE and I need it tomorrow.
the reason for pain, worry or a problem
What's the matter? Why are you crying?
What's the matter with your hand? It's bleeding.
Is anything the matter?
What's the matter?"
a subject or situation that you need to think about, discuss, or deal with
Could I talk to you about a personal matter?
Alois denied any knowledge of the matter.
Will you phone me back - it's a matter of some importance.
Talking about the world's problems is one thing, but solving them is another matter altogether.
On another matter, I'd like to tell your parents that they don't need to get me any present, but if they insist I'd like you to pick me a novel.
to make a situation more difficult, unpleasant, etc.
To make matters worse, our car broke down!
To make matters worse, the newspaper said they only played for thirty-five minutes.
used to emphasize that something is true, especially when it is surprising
As a matter of fact, I used to live next door to him.
As a matter of fact I didn't enjoy Nice much.
used to emphasize that something cannot be changed
I never manage to lose any weight, no matter how hard I try.
No matter where you are or what you do, apparently you need electricity.
If something happens as a matter of course, it always happens as part of the normal process or system.
Babies were tested for the disease as a matter of course.
The transformation has succeeded so far and caused enormous changes in ordinary life as a matter of course, including eating habits.
If you say that it is only a matter of time before something happens, you are sure it will happen but you do not know when.
It's only a matter of time before someone gets killed on this road.
In my opinion it is only a matter of time before it is decided to put an end to this country being a kingdom.
If a subject is no laughing matter, it is serious and not something that people should joke about.
This weather is no laughing matter.
Anna and Tom knew this was no laughing matter.
If something is a matter of confidence/luck/waiting, etc., that is what you need for it to happen.
Learning languages is just a matter of hard work.
His success wasn't a matter of luck, it was a matter of knowing his aims in life and being very persistent, too.
a particular type of substance or thing
vegetable matter
printed matter
As compared to audio-visual aids, books have the advantage of causing less strain to the eyes and mind as printed matter is easier to read than reading from a screen.
a serious situation where people could die
Getting water to these people is a matter of life and death.
I told him it was a matter of life and death.
used in expressions describing how small an amount or period of time is
The aircraft missed each other by a matter of feet.
I decided to relax - knowing a little bit about boats myself I was sure there was a radio on board so it would be only a matter of hours before someone would come to rescue us, wouldn't it?
to be important, or to affect what happens
We were late but it didn't seem to matter.
"What did you say?" "Oh, it doesn't matter."
It doesn't matter what you wear - just as long as you come.
I know Charles doesn't think this project is important, but it matters to me.
Dear Ally, It doesn't matter.
Mature people behave like adults in a way that shows they are well developed emotionally.
She seems very mature for thirteen.
Every time I thought of it before entering college, I expected to find intelligent, kind, and mature people, though of course, some rude, mean and stupid people as well.
to increase something as much as you can
to maximize profits
I can assure you that I would make every possible effort to maximize the outcome of this project.
The maximum amount of something is the largest amount that is allowed or possible.
maximum speed/effort/temperature
The bomb was designed to cause the maximum amount of damage.
From now on, my house will have maximum security (tanks, soldiers, bombs) so no one can kidnap my family again.
the largest amount allowed or possible
The temperature will reach a maximum of 27°C today.
The school has a maximum of 30 students per class.
You said in your letter that you want to do 80 kilometres on Saturday but that is far too much. 50 kilometres is the maximum, it is enough!
used to talk about what will possibly happen
We may go to France later this year.
I may see you tomorrow - it depends on when we leave.
The cause of the accident may never be discovered.
Then we may go sightseeing.
used to talk about what is possibly true
There may be other problems that we don't know about.
I think I may be getting a cold.
I know it may be difficult, because it is not that easy to find a house, but please can you do your best and find something for us very soon.
used to ask or give permission
May I be excused, please?
"May I help myself to some more food?" "Yes, of course."
You may begin.
Hi, my name's Tiffany. How may I help you?
May I suggest that you book me in for the new accommodation.
used to talk about things that possibly happened in the past or might possibly have happened by a certain time in the future
The explosion may have been caused by a faulty electrical connection.
That may not have been Mike's brother you met - I think his cousin is staying with him at the moment.
Helen may have already left by the time you arrive.
Besides, your report is full of mistakes, so it seems to me that you may not have been well informed.
used to suggest doing something, often when there is nothing better to do
We may as well start the meeting - the others will be here soon.
If the shops are closed, we may as well go home.
If you may as well do something, it will not spoil the situation if you do that thing.
If we're not waiting for Karen, we might as well go now.
She turned round quickly, and then paused, seemingly unable to find her words. A few minutes later, she began hesitantly: "After all, you may as well know.
the fifth month of the year, after April and before June
30(th) May/May 30(th)
My mother's birthday is in May.
They came over last May.
We'll see her next May.
The water temperature is 18°C to 26°C all summer (May to end of Sept).
possibly
Maybe we're too early.
Maybe they'll come tomorrow.
Maybe you were right after all.
It could take a month, or maybe more, to complete.
"Are you coming to Kelly's party?" "Maybe."
Maybe I forgot it in your room.
used to politely suggest something
Maybe Ted would like to go.
Maybe we should start again.
Maybe we could visit that park you told me about or play at your house.
the person who is elected to be the leader of the group that governs a town or city
the mayor of Coventry
As I am sure you know, my name is Jane Brown, and I am the mayor's secretary.
used after a verb or preposition to refer to the person who is speaking or writing
Is there one for me?
She gave me some money.
Could you pass me that book?
It wasn't me who offered to go, it was Charlotte.
Lydia is three years younger than me.
It is difficult for me.
accept that what I say is true, because I know or have experienced it
You could be doing a much less interesting job, take it from me.
As you probably already know, Greeks love sport so, take it from me, you won't have difficulty in finding sports facilities of any kind, wherever you decide to go.
an occasion when food is eaten, or the food which is eaten on such an occasion
a hot meal
a three-course meal
a heavy/light meal
I have my main meal at midday.
You must come round for a meal sometime.
I hope we have a great meal and a lot of fun.
to have a particular meaning
What does 'gather' mean?
The red light means stop.
Because, in my opinion, blue means freedom.
something that you say in order to correct yourself
We went there in May - I mean June.
If you have time - I mean if you are free.
to intend to express a fact or opinion
I didn't mean that as a criticism.
That's what I meant when I said he's been acting oddly.
What exactly do you mean by 'old-fashioned'?
Now I know what you mean when you say this island is wonderful.
to have an important emotional effect on someone
It wasn't a valuable picture but it meant a lot to me.
Possessions mean nothing to him.
It's my grandfather's birthday and he means a lot to me.
to intend
I'm sorry if I offended you - I didn't mean any harm.
Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt!
But I didn't mean to scare you.
to have been wanting and planning to do something
I've been meaning to call you for weeks.
Dear Claude, I have been meaning to write for ages!
to have or need a particular result
Lower costs mean lower prices.
These changes will mean better health care for everyone.
Advances in electronics mean that the technology is already available.
If we want to catch the 7.30 train, that will mean leaving the house at 6.00.
This doesn't mean that you won't be able to enjoy the countryside, in fact most of these cities are surrounded by nature, so you'll have wonderful views.
to be made or created for someone or something
These toys are really meant for babies.
Cities are meant for human activities and not for heavy traffic.
If you are meant to do something, that is what you should do in order to behave correctly.
You're meant to shake the bottle first.
He's not meant to drive any more.
She knew he was meant to be home playing his guitar.
If something is meant to do something, that is its purpose.
The belt is meant to hold you in.
Although labels are meant to help the customer identify what the particular product contains, more often than not too many Latin expressions can be found on the label.
to intend to behave in a kind way
I know my parents mean well, but I wish they wouldn't interfere.
Although these fans might mean well, in many cases they do not appear to realise that their 'heroes' perhaps would like to be left alone.
A mean person does not like spending money, especially on other people.
He's too mean to buy her a ring.
My landlord's very mean with the heating - it's only on for two hours each day.
She was so mean that she got divorced because she didn't want to share her money with anybody else, although she loved her husband very much.
unkind or unpleasant
Stop being so mean to me!
She just said it to be mean.
On the other hand people, when driving a car, can be very mean and wicked, and they sure don't have a bit of respect for the next man.
In maths, a mean number is an average number.
Their mean age at death was 84.6.
Better living conditions and significant advances in medicine have greatly contributed to an increase in the mean age of death and a decrease in deaths at birth.
used when you want to emphasize that an act or achievement is very difficult
Learning to ski at 60 is no mean feat!
There was an interesting discussion about whether it was harder or easier for them to enter the world of cinema, given their famous names. Both said that it was no mean feat because people were more demanding as to their abilities.
The meaning of words, signs, or actions is what they express or represent.
The word 'squash' has several meanings.
The meaning of his gesture was clear.
His novels often have a hidden meaning.
If I didn't understand the meaning of a word, she told me and gave me a dictionary to look up the words.
purpose or emotional importance
She felt that her life had no meaning.
The birth of her first grandchild gave new meaning to her life.
the meaning of life
We can give meaning to our lives, with everyday little things.
useful, serious, or important
a meaningful discussion
First of all, I think this camp could be very meaningful for children, to be close to nature and to understand Japan.
having a clear meaning which people can understand
The information needs to be presented in a meaningful way.
The music is really amazing and the lyrics are so meaningful.
a method or way of doing something
They had no means of communication.
We need to find some other means of transport.
The family had no means of support.
Main transport services 1. The buses This is the cheapest means of transport but I would not recommend it.
used as a way of emphasizing something negative or difficult
I'm not an expert by any means.
This is by no means the end of the matter.
For one thing, the fight against air pollution is by no means an easy mission.
using
She tried to explain by means of sign language.
Another plus of the Voiceover CD is the availability of teachers, who can be easily reached by means of a telephone, but this kind of service is expensive.
something that you say when you are agreeing to let someone do something
I have a copy of the report on my desk. By all means have a look at it.
The kitchen utensils stay next to the sink. You can make use of them by all means.
something that you do because it will help you to achieve something else
I didn't particularly like the job - it was just a means to an end.
Major international sports competitions can either be understood as a means to an end or an end in their own right.
money
We don't have the means to buy the house.
She lived alone in a flat with a rent that she couldn't have afforded if she had not had private means.
in the time between two things happening, or while something else is happening
Your computer won't be arriving till Thursday. In the meantime, you can use Jude's.
In the meantime, I decided to buy a new bicycle.
in the time between two things happening, or while something else is happening
Carl's starting college in September. Meanwhile, he's travelling around Europe.
The mother is ill. The child, meanwhile, is living with his grandparents.
Meanwhile, if you agree, I can do some English exercises to cover the class that I'm going to miss.
to discover the exact size or amount of something, or to be of a particular size
"Will the table fit in here?" "I don't know - let's measure it."
He measured the flour into the bowl.
This machine measures your heart rate.
The area, measuring 5 miles by 3 miles, has been purchased by the army.
I measured how long they played for, because I was one of the group's fans.
to be a certain size
a whale measuring around 60 feet in length.
Both are of navy-blue colour measuring about 32 cm high and 14 cm wide and both have a white ribbon attached to the handle.
to judge the quality, effect, importance, or value of something
We will soon be able to measure the results of these policy changes.
They measured the performance of three different engines.
The parameters for measuring success would be vastly different depending on which walk of life is being described, so in the following, the definition of success has been narrowed down to a specific domain: the international computer industry.
a way of achieving something or dealing with a situation
These measures were designed to improve car safety.
We must take preventative measures to stop the spread of the disease.
This arrangement is only a temporary measure.
security measures
There are a lot of measures that we have taken in the last three years.
a way of judging something
Ticket sales are not necessarily a measure of the show's popularity.
So, these two experiences from my childhood taught me a lot of real truth about life and since that time they have been serving me as a measure of my affection or attachment, sorrow or disappointment.
amount
Bulletproof vests give some measure of protection.
His success was in some measure due to his being in the right place at the right time.
the exact size, shape, degree or strength of something which you discover by measuring it
The measurements of both rooms were identical.
They've taken measurements of air quality around the bus station.
We sat day and night to document the results of our measurements of polluted ground all over Sweden.
the process of measuring something, or a way of measuring something
SI units are the standard units of measurement used all over the world.
The test is based on the measurement of blood levels.
The measurement of a child by academic achievement at school is in my opinion very important as the future of a society or even more of a country depends on the high shared knowledge of the people.
muscles and other soft parts of animals, used as food
I don't eat meat.
raw meat
red/white meat
I don't like meat and fish.
someone whose job is repairing the engines of vehicles and other machines
a car/garage/motor mechanic
I worked as a mechanic in my country.
relating to or operated by machines
a mechanical device
a mechanical engineer
The plane appears to have crashed because of a mechanical problem.
First of all, the car had a mechanical defect and I needed to stay almost five hours in an old and dirty garage, waiting for the car to be fixed.
If you do something in a mechanical way, you do it without emotion or without thinking about it.
a mechanical performance
We end up doing our things in such a mechanical way that the actual spirit of doing dies in us.
a part of a piece of equipment that does a particular job
The clock's winding mechanism had broken.
Most chairs' adjusting mechanism failed to work properly and they are not comfortable to sit on.
a system for achieving something, or the way that a system works
We need a mechanism for resolving this sort of dispute.
The definition of market here not only means a traditional marketplace for goods exchange and barter, but it extends further to a supply-sell mechanism which dominates the normal lives of all inhabitants.
a metal disc given as a prize in a competition or given to someone who has been very brave
an Olympic medal
She won three gold medals.
He was awarded a medal for bravery.
They can also take part in sports competitions and win a medal.
newspapers, magazines, radio and television considered as a group
the local/national media
media attention/coverage/hype/reports
The issue has been much discussed in the media.
All things considered, I don't want the media to reveal their private life.
relating to medicine and different ways of curing illness
medical advice
medical treatment
a medical student
a medical team
She has a medical condition that makes it hard for her to work.
With the help of medical technology doctors can cure more and more patients and do many kinds of operations.
in a way that is connected to medicine or to someone's health
The doctor declared her medically fit.
This does seem wise, as there is no 'medically proven' diet or nutrition programme that might help everyone to achieve a state of health that they would be completely happy about.
medicine that is used to treat an illness
He's on medication to control his depression.
He had to put up with unbelievably painful treatments and was forced to take medication which prevented him from continuing his research.
a substance used to cure an illness or injury
cough medicine
Take two spoonfuls of medicine at mealtimes.
The government appealed for food and medicines after the earthquake.
Dear Felix, Thank you inviting me last night. I think I have left my asthma medicine at your house.
treatment for illness or injury, or the study of this
Western/Chinese medicine
a career in medicine
She is a doctor, but is unable to practise medicine in her own country.
She is twenty three years old and she's studying medicine, here in Colombia.
relating to the period in Europe between about AD 500 and AD 1500
a medieval building/painting/town
a medieval manuscript
On our way around the lake we would have the opportunity of visiting a huge medieval castle which is said to be haunted.
not good in quality
The acting was mediocre.
In Hungary, the sports facilities provided are quite mediocre.
the state of being mediocre
I was shocked by the mediocrity of these students.
She is a model of mediocrity and shallowness, and in this sense, she epitomises what authorities expect people to be: just ghosts.
in the middle of a group of different amounts or sizes
a girl of medium height
She bought a medium-sized car.
All shirts come in small, medium, and large.
What size are you? Are you small or medium?
a way of communicating or expressing something
the medium of television/radio
the print medium
The Internet has become yet another medium for marketing.
As with any other medium of communication or entertainment, nothing is totally good or bad provided it is done in moderation.
to see and speak to someone for the first time
They met at work.
I met her in Hawaii.
Have you met my sister?
Come and meet my friend Laura.
"This is Helen." "Pleased to meet you."
At college you can meet new people.
to come to the same place as someone else by arrangement or by chance
We met for coffee last Sunday.
We agreed to meet on Tuesday to discuss the project.
I met my old English teacher while trekking in the Alps.
We met our old neighbours in town last Saturday.
Each student meets with an adviser at the start of the school year.
I meet with my friends there.
a polite way of greeting someone when you meet them for the first time
I'm very pleased to meet you at last!
I will be pleased to meet you.
to wait at a place for someone or something to arrive
Will you meet me at the airport ?
Please meet me at London Heathrow at 12:00 am.
If a group of people meet, they come to a place in order to do something.
The children's club meets every Thursday afternoon.
The shareholders meet once a year to discuss profits.
The members meet at the club every weekend.
to be a big enough amount or of a good enough quality for something
We couldn't find a house that met our needs/requirements.
This old building will never meet the new fire regulations.
Finally, as regards the Internet centre only two computers were available, which did not meet the needs of a Museum like this.
to have just enough money to pay for the things that you need
I've taken a second job in the evenings just to make ends meet.
Most students support themselves and barely make ends meet every month.
to be able to achieve something
He met every goal he set for himself.
I've got a deadline to meet.
Do you think we will be able to meet our target?
All the while under-resourcing of the school system has progressed in a way that social education has largely fallen by the wayside and schools are struggling to meet government targets that are aimed at instilling more "important" knowledge into our children like maths and chemistry.
an event where people come together for a reason, usually to discuss something
We're having a meeting on Thursday to discuss the problem.
I'm afraid she's in a meeting - I'll ask her to call you back later.
I'm free to come to a meeting about this tomorrow at six o'clock p.m. See you then!
a song or tune
He played a beautiful melody.
From his harp, violin, flute, trumpet and many more instruments sprang such a wonderful, enchanting melody that the whole city flourished, thrilled and cheered under its influence.
a large, round, sweet fruit with a thick, green or yellow skin and a lot of seeds
a slice of melon
I want to buy melons, tomatoes, apples and pears.
If something melts, it changes from a solid into a liquid because of heat and if you melt something, you heat it until it becomes liquid.
The snow usually melts by mid March.
Melt the chocolate slowly so that it doesn't burn.
melted cheese
Walking out of the station he saw her! Tall, blond and with eyes that could melt ice.
a person who belongs to a group or an organization
family/staff members
a member of the older generation
He was a member of the university rowing club.
The living room provides a huge place for all of my family members.
the state of belonging to an organization
membership of the EU
I've applied for membership of the union.
a membership card/fee
First, the president welcomed me and gave me my membership card.
the people who belong to a group or an organization
Union membership is now over three million and rising.
First of all, we found that our club's membership is actually falling.
a written message sent from one member of an organization to another
Did you see the memo about expenses?
Dear College Principal, The student committee has received your memo about the proposed changes to the Sports Centre.
If an occasion is memorable, you will remember it for a long time because it is so good.
a memorable performance
a memorable evening
It was a memorable birthday party because they bought me a bass guitar that I couldn't buy because of its high price.
an object, often made of stone, that is built to help people remember an important person or event
a war memorial
The statue was erected as a memorial to those who died in the war.
Every year almost all the inhabitants of our suburb gather at the memorial and celebrate this anniversary.
the amount of information that can be stored on a computer or other electronic device
You need 128 megabytes of memory to run this software.
Don't forget it has 4GB of memory.
your ability to remember
You have a good memory.
She has an excellent memory for names.
He had a photographic memory.
memory loss
It's about a girl that lives in London and she lost her memory so everybody has to tell her everything about the past.
something that you remember from the past
I have very fond memories of that period of my life.
I have vivid memories of that evening.
That tune really brings back memories.
I have so many good memories.
the part of your mind that stores what you remember
He recited the poem from memory.
If you do something in memory of a dead person, you do it to show your respect or love for them.
They built a statue in memory of those who died in the fire.
You see, every year our family performs a certain gathering in memory of my brother who was killed in a plane crash in 1991 known as the C130 disaster.
an occasion when you remember some of the good things you did in the past
We were just taking a walk down memory lane and recalling our youth.
I want to return there, without the kids, even without my husband, to have a long stroll down memory lane.
to repair something that is broken, torn, or not working correctly
Could you mend this hole in my shirt?
I've left my watch at the jeweller's to be mended.
The plumber came to mend the burst pipe.
I've just returned from a short cycling holiday with two friends. You know one of them, Peter, the guy whose bicycle was broken and you mended it.
relating to the mind, or involving the process of thinking
mental health/illness
She had a mental picture of how the house would look when they finished decorating it.
His theories have changed our attitude towards mental illness (and mental health) completely.
a person's opinions or way of thinking
I can't understand the mentality of people who hunt animals for fun.
This is why the changing mentality of men plays an important role.
connected with or related to the mind
mentally ill
It's going to be a tough competition but I'm mentally prepared for it.
Most people believe that team sports help children to become healthier, both mentally and physically, but there are those who have objections to this statement.
to briefly speak or write about something or someone
She didn't mention her daughter.
I'll mention your ideas to Jacinta.
He casually mentioned that he was leaving his job.
Did she happen to mention whether she would be coming?
You mentioned you are coming to visit my country.
used to emphasize the importance of something that you are adding to a list
The resort has great hotels and restaurants, not to mention some of the best skiing in the region.
It is crowded everywhere, the shop assistants are stressed, you get to wait for hours to pay for your goods, not to mention the time you must wait to get them wrapped.
a brief remark
When I ordered the catalogue, there was no mention of any payment.
The report made no mention of the problem.
The story didn't even get a mention in the newspaper.
In the advertisement there's no mention about getting any money back but I think it was such a disappointing evening that you should give it back to me.
a list of food and drinks that you can order in a restaurant
a lunch/dinner menu
The waiter brought the menu and the wine list.
I ordered the most expensive thing on the menu.
It's for celebrations because it is a very nice menu.
a list that appears on a computer screen of the choices available in a computer program
a pop-up menu
I like it because it has a big screen and easy menu.
describes someone who shows kindness and forgiveness to people who are in their power
a merciful ruler
He would have seven children, all of them would be merciful and good rulers of rich countries.
cruel, or showing no kindness
a merciless attack
She was merciless in her criticism of his work.
Sheila, being at least aware how deeply her merciless behaviour changed Eve's life, was the only person in the family who was taught a lesson.
kindness that makes you forgive someone, usually someone that you have authority over
The judge showed no mercy.
The prisoners begged/pleaded for mercy.
The doctor showed no mercy and neither would Douglas.
to not be able to protect yourself from something or someone that you cannot control
Farmers are often at the mercy of the weather.
I couldn't believe I'd been careless enough to let them be at the mercy of Joanna's careless, boisterous friends, and I felt very lonely now, looking for them.
used to emphasize that something is not large or important
It cost a mere twenty dollars.
The mere thought of eating octopus makes me feel sick.
The fight was just a mere coincidence.
used to emphasize that something is small, often when it has an important effect
She's upset by the merest hint of criticism.
used to emphasize that you mean exactly what you are saying and nothing more
I wasn't complaining, I merely said that I was tired.
I didn't say that you had to go - I merely suggested that you might like to go.
Of course this is merely a suggestion, and if you have got anything else in mind please don't hesitate to let me know.
used to emphasize that something is not large, important, or effective when compared to something else
The medicine doesn't make you better, it merely stops the pain.
The modern way of travelling conducted by agencies ... does not broaden the mind generally. It merely relieves the mind from the oppressions of a regular schedule at work and at home by producing a different environment.
If two or more things merge, they combine or join, and if you merge two or more things, you combine or join them.
The two companies merged.
They're planning to merge the banks.
The city's smaller libraries will be merged into a large, central one.
What will happen if the biggest companies go on merging and reducing the number of their employees?
when two or more companies or organizations join together
The two companies announced their merger yesterday.
For example, in Korea where conglomerates as well as small companies have announced their bankruptcy or are in the state of liquidation or merger, millions of people are on the verge of being laid off and unemployed.
good qualities which deserve praise
His ideas have merit.
We debated the merits of using television in the classroom.
Every application has to be judged on its own merits (=judged by considering the qualities of each).
Nevertheless, everything has its own merits.
to be important enough to receive attention or punishment
Her crimes were serious enough to merit a prison sentence.
One thing which merits serious consideration is the consequences of this invasion in famous private lives.
Something or someone that is a mess or is in a mess, looks dirty or untidy.
My hair's such a mess!
The house is in a mess.
He makes a terrible mess when he's cooking.
Go and clear up that mess in the kitchen.
Now my room is a mess because I have so much stuff.
a situation that is full of problems
She said that her life was a mess.
The company's finances are in a mess.
If he hadn't lied, he wouldn't be in this mess now.
How on earth did I get into this mess?
to spend time playing and doing things with no particular purpose
I was just messing around on the computer.
She'd spent the day with friends, just messing about.
Well, you could do baby-sitting, but if you don't like kids messing around, don't worry, there are many other jobs.
to waste time, often by doing things that are not important
Stop messing around and do your homework!
Every day we are informed about young people "causing problems", "trouble" or "messing around".
to spoil something, or to do something badly
Don't try to cook lunch without me - you'll only mess it up.
I feel I've messed up my chances of getting the job.
I ignored the price and just paid because I didn't want to mess up the evening.
a piece of writing or spoken information which one person gives to another
Did you get my message?
I've left her several messages, but she hasn't returned my call.
Could you give Jen a message from me, please?
I got your message that you were going to be late.
Thank you for your message.
the most important idea in a book, film or play
The book conveys a complex message.
The film's message is that ultimately, rich and poor are alike.
It has a clear message: if you desire something, you can achieve whatever you want, but only with enormous effort and the danger of losing everything you possess.
a place on a website where you can leave messages for other people to read
There's a lot of discussion on the message boards about this issue.
untidy or dirty
a messy kitchen
messy hair
His bedroom's always messy.
My kids are both really messy.
It's completely messy now, looks like a war in my bedroom, because my bed has broken and I need to buy a new bed quickly.
a usually hard, shiny material such as iron, gold, or silver which heat and electricity can travel through
Metal, paper and glass can be recycled.
Silver, gold and platinum are precious metals.
Metals are used for making machinery and tools.
It was made of metal and wood.
a way of describing something by comparing it with something else which has some of the same qualities
She used a computer metaphor to explain how the human brain works.
I shall use a metaphor to help me express my idea.
a way of doing something, often one that involves a system or plan
What's the best method of/for solving this problem?
Travelling by train is still one of the safest methods of transport.
traditional teaching methods
I think her teaching method is modern, up to date, and I hope I'll finally improve my English.
very careful, and giving great attention to detail
This book is the result of meticulous research.
The historian members of the committee were very keen to preserve the facts as they were - and were therefore very meticulous - whereas the officers were rather reluctant to exhibit certain documents.
a unit for measuring length, equal to 100 centimetres
Our bedroom is five metres wide.
a 15-metre yacht
She won the 100 metres at the Olympics.
He is 1m 75 tall.
The price of water rose to 48p per cubic metre.
It is about 100 metres from the school.
a piece of equipment that you speak into to make your voice louder, or to record your voice or other sounds
The interviewer asked her to speak into/use the microphone.
My laptop has a built-in microphone.
Then we had to plug in all the electric instruments, speakers, lights and microphones.
12 o'clock in the middle of the day, or the period around this time
I just have a sandwich at midday/for my midday meal.
the heat of the midday sun
At midday, we were very hungry so we went to eat a pizza.
in the central part, or in a central position
This is my class photo - I'm the one in the middle.
He was standing in the middle of the road.
The middle of the road was covered with weeds.
The mirror is in the middle. There are flowers on the left and right of the mirror.
the central point in a period of time
The letter should arrive by the middle of next week.
The noise woke us up in the middle of the night.
Once, she woke up in the middle of the night and there was the ghost of her husband's wife.
to be busy or involved in something
I can't talk now - I'm in the middle of cooking a meal.
But while I was in the middle of my tour, I received another e-mail.
a long way from places where people live
His car broke down in the middle of nowhere.
You know I really don't want to get lost in the middle of nowhere.
in a central position
The knives and forks are in the middle drawer.
Our company rents the middle warehouse.
After some minutes and as I was going along in the middle lane, the car stopped.
neither high nor low in importance, amount or size
middle managers
middle income families
However, women are mostly found in the low and middle income jobs and they are often working part-time.
in the middle of your life before you are old
a middle-aged couple/man/woman
Our teacher is a middle-aged lady with a kind smile and British accent.
12 o'clock at night
We didn't get home till midnight.
We stayed until midnight dancing and singing.
to work late into the night
I had to burn the midnight oil to get the essay finished.
My examinations were nearing and I was always burning the midnight oil.
used to talk about what will possibly happen
We might finish the project by Thursday.
She might not come.
We should wear t-shirts to paint the wall because the paint might make our t-shirts dirty.
used to talk about what is possibly true
I think Isabel might be pregnant.
Don't go any closer - it might be dangerous.
At first, I thought it might be a mistake.
used to talk about things that possibly happened in the past or could possibly have happened by some time in the future
It might have been Alex who called.
The rain might have stopped by lunchtime.
First of all, you might have been thinking you have to go to a sports club or somewhere and exercise very hard to keep fit.
used to suggest doing something, often when there is nothing better to do
We might as well walk there.
As you already know so much about the subject, you might as well skip this lecture.
In my opinion, you might as well ask your neighbours if they can look after your flat for one day.
used to politely suggest something
You might want to try a different approach next time.
You might want to consider requesting your staff to learn a second language such as German, French or Spanish.
If you may/might as well do something, it will not spoil the situation if you do that thing.
If we're not waiting for Karen, we might as well go now.
I'm not happy to tell you this but I might as well be frank about it as we both want the visit to be a delightful as possible to our members.
very powerful or successful
In their next game they're playing the mighty Redskins.
Teotihuacan was the place that saw the rise and fall of the mighty "Nahvatlaca Tribe".
when people go to another place to live or find work, or when an animal or bird moves to another place, usually when the season changes
There was a mass migration of poor farmers into the cities.
The butterflies come to Mexico during their annual migration.
There is also migration, people from little villages in the interior migrate to the coast.
describes weather that is not very cold or not as cold as usual
We've had a mild winter this year.
As you know, my country has got mild weather.
describes food or a food flavour that is not very strong
a mild chilli sauce
Korean food is quite hot and usually served with rice, but Thai food is mild and sometimes a little bit sour.
not violent, severe or extreme
She can't accept even mild criticism of her work.
He has suffered a mild heart attack - nothing too serious.
a mild form of pneumonia
Music has either a strong or a mild impact (depending on the person) on our lives.
a unit for measuring distance, equal to 1609 metres or 1760 yards
a ten-mile drive
The nearest town is ten miles away.
The latest high-speed trains can travel at 140 miles an/per hour.
I don't feel safe enough any more, because the police station is 10 miles away and last week there was a burglary at my neighbour's house.
a very long distance
We drove for miles along dusty roads.
Her cottage is miles from the nearest village.
And then, when it seems as if you have walked for miles, you enter the magnificent Forum Romanum.
relating to the army, navy, or air force
military action/service
military uniform
military targets/forces
During my military experience I worked in the kitchen, so kitchen work is quite normal for me as well.
a country's army, navy, and air force
The military has opposed any cuts in defense spending.
Until the 1970s, fencing was a sport restricted to the military.
a white liquid produced by women and other female animals, such as cows
a glass/carton of milk
cow's/goat's milk
I like to drink coffee and tea with milk.
a period of 1000 years, often calculated from the date when Christ is thought to have been born
We had a party to celebrate the new millennium.
On the cusp of a new millennium, the importance of holidays in this modernized, stressful world is undeniable.
a unit of length which is equal to 0.001 metres
The ring has a width of three millimetres.
the number 1 000 000
She got eight million dollars for appearing in that film.
It costs about three million VietNam dong (VND).
a lot
I've seen that film millions of times.
There are millions of things you can do with a computer.
someone's memory or their ability to think, feel emotions, and be aware of things
My mind was full of what had happened the night before, and I wasn't concentrating.
I just said the first thing that came into my mind.
For some reason her words stuck in my mind.
She has a very logical mind.
At my first class he asked to me sing a song in English, so I sang "Always on my mind!"
to change a decision or opinion
I've changed my mind about selling the house.
If you change your mind, let me know.
At first I wasn't so excited as Clara, but after an afternoon there I changed my mind!
to make a decision
I haven't made up my mind whether to apply for the job yet.
They couldn't make their minds up about where to go on holiday.
The place was so dirty that I made up my mind to change it by buying something useful.
to remember to consider someone or something that may be useful in the future
I'll keep you in mind if another job comes up.
Bear in mind that there's a public holiday next week.
But we should keep in mind that books improve our vocabulary and, what's more, our imagination.
used to emphasize that you are giving your own opinion
To my mind, the play was rather disappointing.
To my mind, The Picture of Dorian Gray is probably his best novel.
If an idea crosses your mind, you think about it for a short time.
It never crossed my mind that she might be married.
The first thought that crossed his mind was to call the police immediately and that was what he actually did.
to wait until you know all the facts before you form an opinion about something or judge someone
We're keeping an open mind about the causes of the fire.
To listen, to communicate, and to have an open mind are a way of life nowadays.
to say something to someone to stop them worrying
I was really worried about the tests, but talking to the doctor put my mind at rest.
I hope my letter will put your mind at rest.
to give your full attention to something and try very hard to do it
You could win if you put your mind to it.
With all the technology available, the task is actually quite simple if you put your mind to it.
to have difficulty making a decision
I'm in two minds about accepting his offer.
If you are in two minds about having to share your room with someone else, there you can easily rent a studio apartment close to the college, which is situated in the centre of the city.
If an idea comes to mind, you think of it.
I was thinking about who might be suitable for this job, and your name came to mind.
Positives did come from that crisis - more efficient engines, lighter vehicles and lead-free petrol are just some of the examples that come to mind.
If something blows your mind, you are very excited or surprised by it.
There was one scene in the film that really blew my mind.
'MOMO', written by Michael Ende, is a book that blew my mind as a child and as an adult, I have read it many times, but the last time has been a while now.
to think or worry about something
Jim has a lot on his mind at the moment.
If an idea springs to mind, it is the first thing you think of.
A musical event that clearly springs to mind is a Rolling Stones concert in Parken, Copenhagen, which I attended in June 1998.
in your imagination or memory
In my mind's eye, she remains a little girl of six although she's actually a grown woman.
He sees her in his mind's eye, running around barefoot, laughing and squealing, wading in the water and running back out, screaming, trying to get away from the breaking waves.
to say exactly what you think without worrying if it will upset anyone
She has very strong opinions and she's not afraid to speak her mind.
His father is even more eccentric, speaks his mind and has no manners at all.
to try to remember
If you cast your mind back, you might recall that I never promised to go.
Thus, when I pick one of these stones, I cast my mind back to the specific place where I found it, the person I was, the particular moment.
the way someone feels at a particular time
She was in a much more positive frame of mind today.
Naturally, these are more difficult factors to cope with for older people, but it just happens to anyone if you're not in the right frame of mind.
a feeling that you do not need to worry about anything
We lock our doors and windows at night for peace of mind.
After all, successfully earning your living guarantees peace of mind.
the ability to deal with a difficult situation quickly and effectively
She had the presence of mind to press the alarm.
Frank tried to hide a bag behind his back with great presence of mind.
If something slips your mind, you forget about it.
I meant to tell her Nigel had phoned, but it completely slipped my mind.
There was something but it slipped my mind before I reached it.
something you say when politely asking if you can do something, or when asking someone else to do something
Do you mind if I put the television on?
Do you mind if I bring a friend?
used to say the choice is not important when responding to an offer or suggestion
"Would you like tea or coffee?" "I don't mind - either."
"Shall we take the train or go by bus?" "I don't mind which, you choose."
I don't mind what we do.
used to tell someone not to worry about something because it is not important
"I'm afraid I've lost that wallet you gave me." "Well, never mind, I can easily buy you another one."
Never mind Ally, forget it, I know you've been busy.
to be annoyed, unhappy or worried by something
Would she mind if I came too?
Take Juan's book - I'm sure he wouldn't mind.
I don't mind driving.
I don't mind taking her if you're too busy.
Do you mind me smoking?
I'd prefer to stay in tonight, if you don't mind.
I want to borrow your bicycle if you don't mind because mine doesn't work well.
something you say when telling someone to be careful with something dangerous
Mind the iron - it's still very hot!
Mind out! There's a car coming.
Mind (that) you don't hit your head on the shelf when you stand up.
used to request something politely
Would you mind sharing a room?
Would you mind if I called you, to know what I've missed?
something you say before saying the opposite of what you have just said
We had a lovely holiday in France. Mind you, the weather was appalling.
Mind you, that can well be a reflection of someone's personality as it could be argued that it demonstrates insecurity!
used to tell someone in a rude way that you do not want them to ask about something private
I wish you'd just mind your own business.
Despite knowing that he was only doing what he thought was best for me, I couldn't stand him, and I often told him to mind his own business.
the things that belong or relate to the person who is speaking or writing
"Whose bag is this?" "It's mine."
Your son is the same age as mine.
She's an old friend of mine.
Can I use your pen? Mine's not working.
A friend of mine gave me a present on my birthday.
an underground system of holes and passages where people dig out coal or other minerals
a coal/salt/gold mine
My grandfather used to work down the mines.
It is a more or less industrial region with many coal mines.
someone who works in a mine
a coal miner
We are used to strikes in our country so when we heard that the miners had refused to work we did not despair.
water which is taken from the ground and contains natural chemical substances
still/carbonated/fizzy mineral water
P.S. You can bring a bottle of mineral water.
to meet and talk to a lot of people at a party or similar event
The party will be a good opportunity to mingle with the other students.
If you have some time and money to spend go on holiday to an English-speaking country and try to mingle with the locals.
to mix, or be mixed
The smell of fresh coffee mingled with cigarette smoke.
The chill current of approaching winter mingled with a lingering warmth of summer so that the air became fresh and alive.
extremely small
a miniature camera
Behind him was piled the most awkward assortment of stuff I had ever seen: a miniature Eiffel Tower, a monocycle, a letter-box, three netted cages, an accordion, and a bunch of other things whose name I couldn't even guess.
If something is in miniature, it is a very small copy of something else.
a model of the ship in miniature
Thirdly a co-educational school is a society in miniature and it has many practical advantages.
very small in amount
Damage to the building was minimal.
Bigger car parks would be built near the MRT station so that people may park their cars at the car park having to pay a minimal rate and use the train to bring them to their workplace.
to make the amount of something that is unpleasant or not wanted as small as possible
Airport staff are trying to minimize the inconvenience caused to passengers.
Try to minimize your working time and spend more time with other people.
The minimum amount of something is the smallest amount that is allowed, needed, or possible.
There is a minimum charge of £5 for postage.
Eighteen is the minimum age for entering most nightclubs.
That's the minimum qualification required to teach English in most language schools.
I am going to phone them to ask how much the wage is, but anyway the minimum rate in England is £3.60.
the smallest amount that is allowed, needed, or possible
The judge sentenced him to a minimum of five years in prison.
We need a minimum of ten people to play this game.
Wage increases are being kept to a minimum because of the recession.
You should spend a minimum of 1-2 hours per day on this activity.
the industry or activity of removing substances such as coal or metal from the ground by digging
coal/salt mining
My company deals mostly with the mining, processing and beneficiation of magnesite ore. Most of our final products are sold abroad.
a member of the government in Britain and many other countries who is in charge of a particular department or has an important position in it
the foreign/health minister
the Minister of/for Education
He was elected minister of sports, creating some laws to help the players to be more independent.
a government department which is responsible for a particular subject
the Ministry of Defence/Agriculture
a Foreign Ministry spokesman
According to a majority of students, it's quite economical for them to go to state schools since the Turkish Ministry of Education gives them scholarships.
not important or serious
a minor offence/operation
She suffered only minor injuries.
It requires a few minor adjustments.
Happily they were found by some hunters and escaped with minor injuries.
less than half of a group of people or things
It's only a tiny minority of people who are causing the problem.
Children with single parents at my school were very much in the minority.
This section of the bookstore caters for minority interests.
On the other hand, the minority of people who believe the opposite maybe want to see the animals and to watch their movements.
a group of people whose race is different from the race of most of the people where they live
ethnic/religious minorities
The plan was designed to help women and minorities overcome discrimination in the workplace.
The novel reveals very clearly to the reader how minorities are exploited and scorned by society.
a herb whose leaves have a strong fresh smell and taste and are used for giving flavour to food and drinks such as tea
a bunch of mint
I'd recommend his special lamb chop with mint sauce, it's just so delicious.
reduced by a stated number
Five minus three is two.
That will be £1500, minus the deposit of £150 that you have already paid.
The temperature fell to minus 20 overnight.
It's cold in winter: minus ten degrees!
a period of time equal to 60 seconds
a ten-minute bus ride
It takes me twenty minutes to get to work.
The train leaves at three minutes to eight, so we'd better get there a few minutes before then.
I had a break for 20 minutes.
a very short period of time
I'll be with you in a minute.
It'll only take a minute to call him.
When you've got a minute, I'd like a brief word with you.
Hang on a minute - I'll be with you as soon as I can!
Can you hold on a minute - he's at the end of the garden.
When I saw all these things, without wasting a minute I left the toilet with the suitcase in search of that person.
said in order to interrupt someone, or to get their attention or when you have suddenly thought of something important
Wait a minute - I've just had an idea.
Oh! Wait a minute...
very soon
Her train should be arriving any minute.
The evil creatures who were bound to come out of the dark would see Carla any minute now.
the latest time possible
The concert was cancelled at the last minute.
Unfortunately, the next evening, one hour before the beginning of the show, we learnt that the main actors had been changed at the last minute.
as soon as
I'll tell you the minute we hear any news.
Even when we are small babies, from the minute that we are able to understand what is happening around us, the first thing that we do is try to learn and touch everything that is close to us and get familiar with it.
extremely small
a minute amount/quantity
I see no sense in having a supermarket, an ugly and gigantic block, next to a village where the inhabitants only require a minute amount of food, since we are all self-sustaining because of our farms.
done in great detail
He explained everything in minute detail.
He is also a person who can pay meticulous attention to minute details.
something that is very surprising or difficult to believe
an economic miracle
Looking at the state of his car, it's a miracle (that) he wasn't killed.
I can't promise a miracle cure, but I think we can improve things.
Every single day we hear about new products, new methods, new technological miracles which have turned our daily lives upside down.
a piece of glass with a shiny metallic material on one side which produces an image of anything that is in front of it
the bathroom mirror
She was looking at her reflection in the mirror.
The mirror was given to me by Jenny.
to behave badly
If you misbehave, you will be punished - it's as simple as that.
Firstly, an apology is due to all nearby residents whose lives were disturbed by a few somewhat misbehaving students.
sad
I just woke up feeling miserable.
I feel very miserable and my boyfriend is still angry with me because that ring was his gift for our first year together.
very unpleasant or bad, and causing someone to feel unhappy
miserable weather
Families here are living in miserable conditions.
Heathcliff always swears revenge because of the miserable situation the other characters have put him in.
A miserable amount is too small to be acceptable.
She offered me a miserable £50 for my old computer.
We find ourselves running up and down stairs, making hundreds of phone calls ... and then having a miserable 15 minutes lunch break to grab some food and restore our energy levels.
great suffering or unhappiness
The war brought misery to millions of people.
We have witnessed the most appalling scenes of human misery.
Ten years of marriage to him have made her life a misery.
A few hours of amusement for us might mean a whole life of misery for the animals.
bad luck, or an unlucky event
He had the misfortune to fall in love with a married woman.
But try not to wear black because they believe it brings bad luck and misfortune.
an accident or unlucky event which usually is not serious
They suffered a series of mishaps during the trip.
The accident was just a tragic mishap.
Personally speaking, I have always received courteous attention from my parents and this has helped me overcome all mishaps that may occur.
to give someone false information
I'm afraid you've been misinformed about your exam results.
From the article, I got the impression that your reporter was misinformed about certain facts which are crucial for a better understanding of the event.
to understand something in the wrong way
He claims his speech was deliberately misinterpreted by journalists.
A direct consequence of this is that adults misinterpret their intentions and object to youth's lack of respect.
when something is understood in the wrong way
What he said was a complete misinterpretation of my views.
In conclusion, all the advantages that TV brings must not make us believe that it is only a positive object. Its power can lead us to bad mistakes, or misinterpretation.
to make someone believe something that is untrue by giving them information that is wrong or not complete
She claims the public was misled by the government.
As a member of the charity organisation, I was very much upset by the report, as it was totally against the facts, which would certainly mislead the readers.
making someone believe something that is untrue
misleading information/statements
I found it rather misleading and I would like to provide true information about the festival.
to lose something temporarily by forgetting where you have put it
I seem to have misplaced my keys.
It is only when these possessions are lost or stolen or simply misplaced that they are greatly missed.
a title for a girl or woman who is not married, used before her family name or full name
Dr White will see you now, Miss Carter.
Miss Helena Lewis
Dear Miss Timson, How are you?
to not go to something
You'll fall behind in your studies if you keep missing school.
I missed my class this morning.
He missed the office party.
You only missed the best party of the year!
to feel sad about someone that you do not see now or something that you do not have or do now
I really missed her when she went away.
She will be sadly missed by all who knew her.
I still miss my old car.
What did you miss most about England when you were living in France?
I really miss cycling.
I miss you a lot.
to arrive too late to get on a bus, train, aircraft, etc.
You'll miss your train if you don't hurry up.
Even if we missed the train, I was happy and this was the most important thing.
to not use an opportunity to do something
You can't afford to miss a chance like this.
It's the most important tennis competition in my town, and I can't miss this opportunity.
to avoid doing or experiencing something
You should leave early if you want to miss the rush hour.
If you want to have a nice time, you should leave the hotel early in the morning because in this way you will miss the rush-hour traffic.
to not see or hear something
Sorry, I missed that, could you repeat it please?
We missed the first five minutes of the film.
My office is first on the right with a bright red door. You can't miss it.
First of all, the Festival began on time at midday with King Cup. Maybe you might have missed that part.
to fail to do something at the correct time or to be too late to do something or see something or someone
I must finish this letter or I'll miss the post.
Helen? I'm sorry, you've just missed her.
I have to finish or I'll miss the last post.
to not hit or catch something as you intended
It should have been such an easy goal and he missed.
He threw a book at me, but it missed.
The bullet missed his heart by a couple of centimetres.
He aimed for the heart, and, when he was about to fire, an innocent pigeon landed on his rifle. Paul wasn't expecting this, and his shot missed the judge.
to be too late to get what you want
I'm afraid you've missed the boat. All the concert tickets have been sold.
What if she never had another chance? What if she missed the boat? Overcome by the anxiety and the lack of sleep, the first thing she did in the morning was to pick up two of her best poems and put them in an envelope.
to not do an activity
I think I'll give aerobics a miss this evening.
For this reason, I don't encourage you to buy the Spanish version of these CDs. I think you should give it a miss. Kind regards
an explosive weapon which can travel long distances through the air
nuclear missiles
a missile attack
In the meantime dissident elements of the terrorist organization had tried to make contact with the United States intelligence organizations to warn them of possible bomb or missile attacks on their Kenyan and Tanzanian missions.
If someone or something is missing, you cannot find them because they are not in their usual place.
Her father has been missing since September 1992.
The girl went missing during a family outing to Mount Snowdon.
Have you found those missing documents?
Yesterday, when I reached home, I found that my note book was missing.
not included in something
There are a couple of names missing from the list.
When did you realise that the money was missing from your account?
But even with all this furniture, I feel like there is something missing, so I have decided to buy some posters of my favourite rock bands and put them on the walls.
someone's duty or purpose in life
Her mission in life was to help the poor.
You think that you are "great", since you can cope with both the job and lots of other "missions" in life, education, sports and so on.
an important job, usually travelling somewhere
Our mission was to isolate the enemy by destroying all the bridges across the river.
I'll be going on a fact-finding mission to Paris next week.
Apparently somebody had tried to sabotage the mission and given them both different code words.
small drops of water in the air which make it difficult to see objects which are not near
The early-morning mist soon lifted/cleared.
The mountain villages seem to be permanently covered in mist.
The mist was getting thicker all the time and the rain was coming down harder.
something that you do or think which is wrong
He made a lot of mistakes in his written test.
This letter's full of spelling mistakes.
We shouldn't have come here - it was a mistake.
It would be a big mistake to leave school.
She made the mistake of giving him her phone number.
I've discovered a few mistakes in your calculations.
I'm not blaming you - we all make mistakes.
You might need a rubber if you make a mistake.
If you do something by mistake, you do it without intending to.
I picked up someone else's book by mistake.
I've paid this bill twice by mistake.
After 30 minutes, a man appeared telling us that he had taken our suitcases by mistake.
If you are mistaken, or you have a mistaken belief, you are wrong about something.
If you think you can behave like that, you are mistaken.
First of all, you mentioned in the article that we promised 45 stalls for that day, but you are completely mistaken as we announced only 35.
If the weather is misty, there is a cloud of small drops of water in the air, which makes it difficult to see objects which are not near.
a cold and misty morning
But the evenings were a bit cold and misty.
to not understand someone or something correctly
He misunderstood the question completely.
He meant that he had misunderstood the situation.
If someone is misunderstood, other people do not understand that they have good qualities.
He was a genius, but misunderstood by society at the time.
He was misunderstood by the adult world, he only wanted to be away from everybody, he wanted to be all by himself.
when someone does not understand something correctly
There must have been a misunderstanding.
I think that there is a misunderstanding about the day that I should pick up the keys from your neighbours.
to use something in the wrong way or for the wrong purpose
He misused his position to obtain money dishonestly.
By doing this the money won't be misused because we won't have to build a new indoor court that will not be used at all times.
the use of something in the wrong way or for the wrong purpose
They accused him of the misuse of power.
Can we disregard the consequences there may be of the misuse of the above innovations of technology?
If two or more substances mix, they combine to make one substance, and if you mix two or more substances, you combine them to make one substance.
Oil and water don't mix.
Mix the powder with water to form a paste.
In a large bowl, mix together the flour, sugar and raisins.
I can work at the bar mixing drinks.
to have two or more qualities, or to do two or more activities, etc. at the same time
a feeling of anger mixed with sadness
That also could be a good way to mix learning and entertainment.
to meet and talk to people
She enjoys going to parties and mixing with people.
I like mixing with people.
a combination of things or people, often in a group
There's a good mix of nationalities in the class.
There was an odd mix of people at Patrick's party.
"She's studying physics and philosophy." "That's an interesting mix."
This film is a mix of fantasy and adventure.
a substance made of other substances that have been combined
The mixture of flour, water and yeast is then left in a warm place for four hours.
Add milk to the mixture and stir until smooth.
when there is a combination of two or more ideas, qualities, styles, etc.
Their house is decorated in a mixture of styles.
Their latest CD is a mixture of new and old songs.
The result is a very strange mixture of different styles.
to complain or speak in a way that shows you are unhappy
She's always moaning about something.
She had been moaning all week about her job and her difficulties with this and that, but she couldn't remember having asked even once how Simon was getting on.
to make a low sound, especially because you are in pain
He lay on the floor moaning.
He moaned and groaned but he did not have any obvious signs of injuries.
a mobile phone
Can I use your mobile?
It's a very modern mobile, it's a Nokia and it's made in Finland.
a telephone that you can carry everywhere with you
I've left my mobile phone at home.
I'm very happy because I bought a new mobile phone.
a verb, for example 'can', 'might' or 'must', that is used before another verb to show that something is possible, necessary, etc.
The first verb in the following sentence is a modal: We ought to pay the gas bill.
a way of doing something
a mode of transport
In conclusion, I think that both modes of education play a great role in educating children to be good members of society.
a design of machine or car that is made by a particular company
a luxury/new model
the latest model
I like it very much, because it is the latest model and nobody at our school has it.
a smaller copy of a real object, often used to show how something works or what it looks like
a model of the railway
By looking at this model you can get a better idea of how the bridge will look.
a plastic model aircraft
I'm good at making models and telling stories.
someone whose job is to wear fashionable clothes, be in photographs, etc. in order to advertise things
a fashion model
In the future I hope to be a clothes designer or a top model.
someone or something that is an example for others to copy
Their educational system was a model for other countries.
She was a model student.
She is a 'model' citizen of the Fahrenheit 451 society: she doesn't ask questions, she doesn't think by herself, either.
average in size or amount and not too much
a moderate increase in salaries
moderate growth
Eating a moderate amount of fat is healthy.
A moderate increase in cinema attendance was noted until the year 1996.
to make something less extreme
He's trying to moderate his drinking.
to a degree that is average but not very great
There's very little moderately priced housing in this area.
The company remains moderately profitable, but it is not making as much money as it should.
Very often a moderately well-off person would take his chance and try to change his life, hopefully for the better.
If you do something in moderation, you do not do it too much.
I only drink alcohol in moderation.
While shopping can make one feel good and even has its positive impact on the retail economy, I think it should be done in moderation.
using the newest ideas, design, technology, etc. and not traditional
modern architecture/art/medicine
We're in the very modern-looking building opposite the station.
I am going to use the green paint. I think it looks very modern.
relating to the present time and not to the past
modern society
the stresses of modern life
You'll see the modern Japan.
not large in size or amount, or not expensive or important
a modest amount of money
They live in a fairly modest house, considering their wealth.
There has been a modest improvement in housing conditions for the poor.
The party made modest gains in the elections, but nothing like the huge gains that were predicted.
Finally, I hope that my modest report will help the management of our college to achieve their aim.
If you are modest, you do not talk in a proud way about your skills or successes.
He's very modest about his achievements.
Earning a lot she is still very modest and does not show any signs of vanity at all.
by a modest amount
At just £9, the DVD is very modestly priced.
in a modest way
She smiled modestly.
He had always been the star of their partnership, with her supporting him, reassuring him, serving him silently and modestly but in penetrating their shared curriculum he also felt his gratitude re-emerging towards this once loved person who had been his heart, his inspiration, the basis on which he built his life.
a small change to something
We've made a few modifications to the system.
Although I am very happy with the current design of my house I may make some modifications in the future.
to change something in order to improve it
The plans will have to be modified to reduce costs.
To sum up, the Work Experience in Britain Programme should be modified as it was a far cry from what we had been led to expect.
now
I'm afraid she's not here at the moment.
Dear Sebastian, At the moment I'm in Spain.
a very short period of time
I'll be back in a moment.
Can you wait a moment?
For a moment I thought it was Anna.
I'm expecting her to come at any moment.
Have you got a moment ?
I received your letter just a moment ago and I am happy that you are able to visit my country.
a point in time
Just at that moment, the phone rang.
Don't leave it to/till the last moment.
At that moment my phone started to ring.
said in order to interrupt someone, or to get their attention or when you have suddenly thought of something important
Now, wait a moment - I don't agree with that.
If you do something for the moment, you are doing it now, but might do something different in the future.
Let's carry on with what we agreed for the moment.
For the moment I am unemployed so I have plenty of time to give you a hand.
as soon as
I'll call you the moment I hear anything.
I think these differences become relevant from the moment that they decide they are going to make a fire.
If you do something on the spur of the moment, you do it suddenly, without planning it.
On the spur of the moment we decided to go to London for the day.
In reality, many people buy things on the spur of the moment only to discover later that they, in fact, do not meet their expectations.
when something continues to move, increase, or develop
The players seemed to lose momentum halfway through the game.
to gain/gather momentum
Mr Emerson strongly believes in social equality, and his views can be regarded as the reflection of the democratic movements gaining momentum at the beginning of our century.
the day of the week after Sunday and before Tuesday
I start my new job on Monday.
I saw her last Monday.
We leave next Monday.
The baby was born on a Monday.
She goes to college from Monday to Friday.
relating to money
monetary policy
The monetary unit of the UK is the pound.
European monetary union
Indeed such a country, by accepting tourists, can exchange its probably weak currency with potentially hard currencies of strong monetary value, and help its economy.
the coins or banknotes that are used to buy things
How much money have you got?
I spent a lot of money.
Roger wanted to buy it but it cost too much money.
The company's not making any money at the moment.
He earns a lot of money.
Try to save some money for your holiday.
He is from England and he is very friendly and he works a lot because he likes money.
a screen that shows information or pictures, usually connected to a computer
I've bought a bigger monitor for my computer.
We know our world from TV screens and computer monitors.
to watch something carefully and record your results
to monitor progress
The new findings suggest that women ought to monitor their cholesterol levels.
Their life is being monitored and broadcast throughout the country, and every week the audience decide who has to leave.
a hairy animal with a long tail that lives in hot countries and climbs trees
Of all the animals at the zoo he liked the monkeys best.
You can see animals like monkeys and birds, you can feed the fishes and also have a great meal at the restaurant.
when a company or organization is the only one in an area of business or activity and has complete control of it
They have a monopoly on the postal service.
In fact, it is quite obvious that the reason why a second supermarket is planned in our area is related to the current monopoly of the first supermarket.
If something is monotonous, it is boring because it stays the same.
a monotonous voice
monotonous work
The voice of the speaker is monotonous and lacks any rhythm or modulation, intrinsic parts of any language without which proper acquisition of it is impossible.
an imaginary creature that is large, ugly, and frightening
a sea monster
the Loch Ness monster
Another programme is about a man who saves the country from a scary monster.
a cruel and frightening person
You'd have to be a monster to hit a child like that.
In her opinion he was a monster without any human feelings.
one of the twelve periods of time that a year is divided into
February is the shortest month.
I need to ask you, if I can start this course next month, in January, and finish in June.
a period of approximately four weeks
She'll be working here for six months.
I saw him about three months ago.
a two-month-old puppy
My boy friend and I visit every winter for 3-4 months.
happening or produced once a month
monthly payments
a monthly magazine
We're paid monthly.
At the moment I pay £550 monthly plus bills.
an old building or place that is important in history
an ancient monument
In these cities you will be able to visit ancient monuments.
a structure that is built to make people remember an event in history or a famous person
In the square in front of the hotel stands a monument to all the people killed in the war.
First I went to see the Larienki Park and admired the beautiful monument to the greatest Polish composer - Chopin.
the way you feel at a particular time
She's in a bad mood.
You're in a good mood today.
What sort of mood is Ted in today?
Her mood seemed to change during the course of the conversation.
The public mood changed dramatically after the bombing.
The mood of the crowd suddenly turned aggressive.
I reckon I was in a bad mood, but nothing had happened to end our relationship.
to not be friendly to other people because you are feeling angry
Ignore him - he's in a mood.
I didn't mind the rain, actually I prefer rain when I am in a mood like that.
to want to do or have something
I'm not really in the mood for shopping at the moment.
Should you be in the mood for a walk around the lake then go for it.
the round object which moves in the sky around the Earth and can be seen at night
We gazed at the moon.
There is a big window and from it I can see mountains, the sky, the moon and the sun.
to be very pleased about something
She was over the moon about her results.
It's very kind of you to let me use things in your flat. I'm over the moon!
light that comes from the moon
In the moonlight, she looked even more beautiful.
The floor was dark, and the moonlight which came through the window gave the only light.
relating to beliefs about what is right or wrong
moral standards/values
a moral issue
She condemned the proposed law on moral grounds.
Additionally team sport gives children a strong character and it contributes to the development of ethical values and moral principles that makes them fair athletes and people.
behaving in ways considered by most people to be correct and honest
She's a very moral woman.
He couldn't tolerate anybody disturbing childrens' lives for the sake of money, because he was a very moral man.
standards for good behaviour
He has no morals.
Without limits, without morals, a child cannot build his own personality.
the amount of confidence or hope for the future that people feel
The pay increase should help to improve staff morale.
Recent events have caused the morale of the troops to disintegrate completely.
in a moral way
morally wrong/unacceptable
Doesn't it seems morally wrong? Animals need their space and natural surroundings to survive.
something in addition to what you already have
Would you like some more food?
There isn't enough milk - I'll have to buy some more.
I need a bit more time.
The doctors can't cope with any more patients.
Now I have more free time, I and my family go to the swimming pool.
a greater number or amount of people or things
There are more people here today than yesterday.
He knows more about dogs than I do.
In the disco I can meet more new people.
If you do not do something or something does not happen any more, you have stopped doing it or it does not now happen.
I don't do yoga any more.
I don't need it any more because I have a new one.
one more time
I'd like to visit the colleges once more before we leave.
On Friday I will see him once more.
an increasing number
More and more people are choosing not to buy a car.
More and more youngsters have problems with reading and writing.
used before an adjective or adverb to show that someone or something has a greater amount of a quality than someone or something else
This exercise is more difficult than the last one.
It's more expensive than the others.
Could you read a bit more slowly, please?
This place is more beautiful than Stratford.
used to show that something happens a greater number of times than before
We eat out a lot more than we used to.
We go to the cinema more often in the winter.
We really should do this more often.
almost or approximately
We've more or less finished work on the house.
He more or less admitted he'd done it.
The new window will cost £500 more or less.
I will now give you some information, so that you know more or less what you can expect.
more as time passes
It's becoming more and more expensive to buy property in the city.
Cycling is getting more and more popular in Poland.
also and more importantly
The whole report is badly written. Moreover, it's inaccurate.
It is a cheap and, moreover, effective way of dealing with the problem.
Because it is a well-known hotel it should be easy to find it. Moreover, it is really well-located, so it will allow you to move around the city without any problem.
the first half of the day, from the time when the sun rises or you wake up until the middle of the day
Friday morning
I got up late this morning.
I work three mornings a week at the bookshop.
I'd like an appointment for tomorrow morning, please.
I'll see you on Saturday morning.
I wake up at 8 a.m every morning.
used to say hello to someone in the morning
Good morning, Sarah!
during the early part of the day
I listen to the radio in the morning.
She goes to the college in the morning and at night she goes to work.
2/3/4, etc. o'clock at night
My car alarm went off at 3 o'clock in the morning.
I came home at 4 o'clock in the morning.
tomorrow morning
I'll pack my bags in the morning.
the number of deaths at a particular time or in a particular place
infant mortality
the mortality rate
In addition, these countries often have a high birth-rate in combination with a high mortality rate.
a building for Islamic religious activities and worship
They've just built a mosque there.
Dear Wendy, The mosque at the end of town is an interesting place.
a small flying insect that sucks your blood, sometimes causing malaria
mosquito bites
You should stay in a city because of the things that only a city can offer and an important detail about countryside is the mosquitoes, there are a lot!
used before an adjective to show that someone or something has the greatest amount of a quality
She's the most beautiful girl I've ever seen.
She chose the most expensive coat in the shop.
Of the four, he's the most likely to win.
It is the most famous place in Edinburgh and it is interesting too.
more than anything or anyone else
Which subject do you like (the) most?
Sam enjoys the swings most of all.
I love pink the most!
mostly or usually
I enjoyed it for the most part.
First of all, for the most part, people have to use computers in their jobs.
almost all
In this school, most of the children are from the Chinese community.
Most of our students walk to school.
I received a lot of presents. Most of them were toys.
more than anyone or anything else
Everyone was generous but Lizzie gave the most.
This one costs the most.
to take full advantage of something because it may not last long
We should make the most of this good weather.
Remember, always try to make the most of your life.
almost all
I don't eat meat, but I like most types of fish.
Most people think he's guilty.
Most people don't buy fast food.
the largest amount
Carlos earns the most money of all of us.
So, in this game, the people are there to win the most money they can.
mainly or most of the time
Her friends are mostly Italian.
In the smaller villages, it's mostly very quiet at nights.
Normally I wear black or blue jeans and I mostly wear t-shirts and a light jacket.
a female parent
a single mother
My mother was 21 when she got married.
My mother and father came to England in 1944.
Eduardo is a good boy ... he helps his mother at home.
the first language that you learn when you are a child
Italian is my mother tongue but I started to learn English when I was six.
I can speak English and French fluently, added to my mother tongue, Japanese.
the mother of your husband or wife
I get on well with my mother-in-law.
I was a little afraid of getting into contact with my mother-in-law.
when or how something moves
The motion of the boat made him feel sick.
The motion of the air caused by the jet engines makes all the windows tremble and some of them break.
a suggestion that you make in a formal meeting or court of law
Someone proposed a motion to increase the membership fee to £500 a year.
The motion was accepted/rejected.
Nevertheless Mark and Paul maintained their ground and submitted motion after motion to the parliament in order to be allowed to continue their work and use their technique commercially.
to do something because you are expected to do it and not because you want to
These days when we go out, I feel as though he's just going through the motions.
She went through the motions of every-day-life without enthusiasm.
to make someone enthusiastic about doing something
Teaching is all about motivating people to learn.
There are a lot of tools that can be used to motivate people and it is the Human Resources department who should take care of using them properly.
to cause someone to behave in a particular way
Some people are motivated by greed.
Most of us are motivated by fear.
enthusiastic and determined to succeed
a very motivated student
Furthermore, after a break people are often very motivated to go on with their education.
enthusiasm for doing something
There is a lack of motivation among the staff.
I hope my motivation and my capacity for hard work will help me cope with the work successfully.
the need or reason for doing something
What was the motivation for the attack?
Although money is the main motivation, for many people, to work I have come across many people who have worked voluntarily or for less money to gain relevant experience.
a reason for doing something
The police don't yet know the motive for the killing.
What was the motive behind the bombing?
It was not likely that he had done the murder - because there was no motive.
the part of a machine or vehicle that changes electricity or fuel into movement and makes it work
The pump is powered by a small electric motor.
The boat is 26 feet long; it is a sailboat with an inboard motor.
a vehicle with two wheels and an engine
She jumped on her motorbike and raced off down the road.
I want to sell my motorbike.
a person who drives a car
Motorists will be hit hard by the rise in fuel prices.
According to motorists, cars are better than bikes, as you feel more comfortable and relaxed inside them.
a long, wide road, usually used by traffic travelling fast over long distances
motorway driving
You should take the motorway from Palermo to Mazzara and take the third exit.
to arrange a series of organized activities that will achieve a particular result
Students mounted a huge protest against fee increases.
In Orson Welles' story, aliens mount an offensive to take over the world, whereas in Wyndham's book, the world is quietly and slowly conquered by plants.
to increase in amount or level
Tension in the room was mounting.
One day, I was sitting in a dentist's waiting room, and as tension mounted and the old "dentist fear" was eating away at me, I availed myself of the opportunity to browse through a couple of magazines lying on the table.
to fix an object onto something
They've mounted a camera on the wall by the door.
He or any other guest will be happy to explain any of the items mounted on the wall and to reminisce about old times.
to get on a horse or bicycle
I helped him mount the horse.
After only a short walk, he had to help two of them to mount the mules.
a raised part of the Earth's surface, much larger than a hill, the top of which might be covered in snow
The Matterhorn is one of the biggest mountains in Europe.
The Rockies are a mountain range in the western USA.
I'd love to go mountain-climbing.
Perhaps we can go to the mountains.
a large pile of something
There's a mountain of papers on my desk.
But I had to get up to deal with a mountain of documents on my desk.
a small piece of equipment connected to a computer that you move with your hand to control what the computer does
Move your mouse over the screen.
And I had a present! An optical mouse for my computer!
a small animal with fur and a long, thin tail
a field mouse
a pet mouse
Some students and I put a mouse on the teacher's chair and he seemed to be afraid, but he accepted the joke.
a line of hair that some men grow above their mouths
Groucho Marx had a thick black moustache.
My new teacher is fun, nice and cool. He has short black hair and a big moustache.
the part of the face that is used for eating and speaking
Open your mouth wide and say "Ah".
You shouldn't put so much food in your mouth at once.
The doll is my favourite birthday present, because it has two big eyes, a small nose and a small mouth.
where a river goes into the sea
It is a small village, by the mouth of a river.
The mouth of the river with a narrow exit to the sea, provided an extra excitement because of the pressure of the water when joining the sea.
to change place or position, or to make something change place or position
I'm so cold I can't move my fingers.
Will you help me move this table to the back room?
Don't move! Stay right where you are.
I thought I could hear someone moving about/around upstairs.
If you move along/over/up a bit, Tess can sit next to me.
When you move the mouse, it lights up.
If a person or an organization moves, they go to a different place to live or work.
We're thinking of moving - perhaps to the country.
We're moving to Paris.
A lot of businesses are moving out of London because it's too expensive.
As my office will move to the west of the town next month, it will be difficult for me to still live in this house.
to leave your home in order to live in a new one
We're moving house in the spring.
I want to move house as soon as possible.
to change the time or order of something
We need to move the meeting back a few days.
Unfortunately, we have to move the time of our departure because of technical problems.
to make someone have strong feelings of sadness or sympathy
I was deeply moved by his speech.
Many people were moved to tears.
I was very moved: it was so beautiful!
to hurry
We're leaving in five minutes, so get moving!
"Oh, look at the time, we must get moving!"
an action taken to achieve something
Buying those shares was a good move.
It was a good career move.
The latest policies are clearly a move towards democracy.
I have also come to the conclusion that showing the canteen in the film would not be a good move because it is very noisy.
when you go to live or work in a different place
We've had four moves in three years.
the act of moving
She held the gun to his head and said, "One move and you're dead!"
Some minutes later the dj played a song I loved to dance to at the time, called "Satisfaction" by Benny Bennusi, so I indulged in some rather wild dance moves.
to hurry
Come on, get a move on!
'All the lights will be switched off in 28 minutes, so I have to get a move on' I said to myself, as I started to write on a new piece of paper.
a change of position or place
He made a sudden movement and frightened the bird away.
For a long time after the accident, he had no movement in his legs.
Her movements were rather clumsy.
She must sit for two hours without any movement.
a group of people with the same beliefs who work together to achieve something
the women's movement
the labour movement
Obviously what started some time ago as a feminist movement has now grown to the level of independence, economically and most important, socially.
a film
'Casablanca' is my favourite movie.
We played games, had our snacks and then watched a movie.
causing strong feelings of sadness or sympathy
She read a moving speech at the funeral.
It was a really moving story.
a piece of electronic equipment for playing music that has been stored as MP3 files
He gave me an MP3 player.
Dear Sarah, I left my MP3 player at your house last night.
a title for a man, used before his family name or full name
Mr Jones/Mr David Jones
Good afternoon, Mr Dawson.
This package is addressed to Mr Gordon Harper.
We're looking for a Mr George Smith.
I have very nice teacher - Mr Khalid.
a title for a married woman, used before her family name or full name
Mrs Wood/Mrs Jean Wood
Hello, Mrs Grant, how are you today?
Please send your application to the finance director, Mrs Laura Fox.
Dear Mrs. Dunn, Could you help me?
a title for a woman, used before her family name or full name
Ms Hill/Ms Paula Hill
What can I do for you, Ms Wood?
Dear Ms Knapton, I'd like a pen-friend from Brazil; I can write once a week.
In questions, 'much' is used to ask about the amount of something.
Was there much food there?
How much money will I need for the taxi?
How much do these shoes cost?
How much did it cost?
In negative sentences, 'much' is used to say that there is not a large amount of something.
She doesn't earn much money.
Peter didn't say much in the meeting.
"Is there any wine left?" "Not much."
I didn't eat much.
a large amount of something, often more than you want
I'd love to come but I've got too much work.
I've had so much food.
I'll come by plane, because it takes too much time by car.
a lot of
Much of the evidence was unreliable.
Much work remains to be done.
Much of the influence that people come under to change their eating habits comes from TV, especially advertisements.
used when you want to say that a person or thing is not a very good example of something
I'm not much of a cook.
It's not much of a job, but it pays the bills.
I'm not much of a royalist but I think she's the symbol of everything that's Danish.
to be of bad quality
Her latest novel isn't up to much.
But above all, she had this extraordinary dining table, which didn't look up to much when you first walked in the room, but as you lifted the three layers of tablecloths protecting a huge piece of glass, you discovered an amazing display of objects from Alabama.
a large amount or degree
Thank you very much for the flowers!
I like her very much.
I like Bradford very much.
used mainly in questions or negative sentences to mean often or a lot
Do you go to London much?
I don't like curry very much.
I wear skirts, too, but not very much.
used before comparative adjectives such as 'better' and 'more beautiful' to mean 'a lot'
Their old house was much bigger.
That's a much better idea.
It's a much more beautiful city.
This class is so much better than the old one.
a thick liquid mixture of soil and water, or this mixture after it has dried
You've got mud on your shoes.
He'd been playing football and was covered in mud.
It may sound funny, but mud, gravel and snow lying on the school's floors is not a nice sight, so we change our shoes without questioning that rule.
a situation of confusion or bad organization
There was a big muddle over who was buying the tickets.
I'm in such a muddle with these bills.
Dad got into a muddle over the plans for Christmas.
She couldn't make out how to get out of the muddle she was in.
to think that a person or thing is someone or something else
I often get Jonathan and his brother muddled up.
confusing and disorganized
muddled thinking
The book's message is hopelessly muddled.
Lucy is all muddled and confused.
covered by or containing mud
a muddy stream
muddy boots
You've made the kitchen floor all muddy.
I went out into the kitchen. I looked around to see if I could see him, but he was gone, only the wet, muddy footprints were left.
a large cup with straight sides used for hot drinks
a coffee mug
I made myself a large mug of hot chocolate and went to bed.
I got a big mug for my birthday.
with several things or parts
multiple injuries
We made multiple copies of the report.
The report contains multiple errors and gives the reader a totally incorrect view of the event.
a mother
"Happy birthday, Mum!"
All the mums and dads are invited to the school play at the end of the year.
I really want to go there but my mum wants to be in England.
to speak too quietly and not clearly enough for someone to understand you
He mumbled something about it being a waste of time.
I started mumbling something and I could feel I was red because my cheeks were hot.
ordinary, or not interesting
a mundane task/life
Lastly, it would be a good idea to travel to an island and to escape just a while from your mundane routine.
relating or belonging to the government of a town or city
municipal tennis courts
a municipal council/election
Another problem is that the municipal authority in the location proposed has a very negative attitude towards companies of our kind, imposing very high taxes.
the crime of intentionally killing a person
to commit murder
She was charged with attempted murder.
Two sisters have been charged with murder.
a murder weapon
It was about a murder which had taken place on the beach.
to kill someone intentionally and illegally
He was murdered by a former employee.
She was accused/found guilty of murdering her husband.
It's about the man who murdered a lot of people.
someone who has committed murder
a mass murderer
A few weeks later the police caught the murderer of my best friend.
to speak quietly so that you can only be heard by someone near you
"Go to sleep now," she murmured.
He murmured a few words of sympathy.
"They're so unprofessional," he murmured to himself.
the sound of something being said quietly
I could hear the low murmur of voices from behind the door.
All Sandra could do was to nod every now and again to his murmurs.
one of many pieces of tissue in the body that are connected to bones and which produce movement by becoming longer or shorter
neck/back/leg/stomach muscles
facial muscles
These exercises build muscle and increase stamina.
It tones the muscles in this area and provides us with stamina and good health.
to injure a muscle by stretching it too much
I've pulled a muscle in my leg.
a building where you can look at important objects connected with art, history, or science
a museum of modern art
the Natural History Museum
We sometimes go to a museum.
a type of fungus with a short stem and a round top, some types of which can be eaten
pasta with wild mushrooms
They usually buy wine and prepare a traditional Polish meal like cabbage with mushrooms and sausages.
a pattern of sounds that is made by playing instruments or singing, or a recording of this
classical/pop/dance/rock music
a beautiful piece of music
What sort of music do you listen to?
He plays really good music.
I just like making music.
Shall I put some music on?
I like to listen to music.
to accept punishment or criticism for something bad that you have done
At the end of the day I had to go home and face the music.
Teenagers who live with their parents have to face the music about the long bills their parents receive monthly!
related to music
musical instruments
Mozart's musical compositions include symphonies and operas.
If you need a musical instrument, I can bring my guitar but unfortunately I won't be able to play it because I have never learnt it.
good at playing music
She comes from a very musical family.
These people are very musical and, therefore, you will find folk songs and even unique dances.
a play or film in which singing and dancing tell part of the story
a Broadway musical
A Little Night Music is one of Sondheim's greatest musicals.
It is always a great opportunity to enjoy a musical when you go on holiday to London.
in a way that relates to music
It's a school for musically gifted children.
Musically speaking, this band has a lot of talent.
Not that I was musically gifted or wanted to become a pianist, it was just the fact that I loved music that led my step there.
someone who plays a musical instrument, often as a job
a talented jazz/classical musician
The concert features dancers, singers and musicians of all nationalities.
The movie is about two musicians that had to dress like women to escape from the gangsters of Chicago.
used to say that it is necessary or important that something happens or is done
Meat must be cooked thoroughly.
I must get some sleep.
You mustn't show this letter to anyone else.
Luggage must not be left unattended.
We must be there at 7 o'clock in the morning.
used to show that you think it is a good idea for someone to do something
You must come and stay with us some time.
We must meet for lunch.
You must come with me when you are in Germany.
used to show that you think something is very likely or certain to be true
Harry's been driving all day - he must be tired.
It must have been very upsetting for her.
There's no food left - they must have eaten it all.
She must be very wealthy.
I must have been seven years old at that time.
a thick, spicy yellow or brown sauce often eaten in small amounts with meat
a teaspoon of mustard
You just ask for what you want put in it - ham, eggs, salad, chicken, mustard, etc.
to speak quietly so that your voice is difficult to hear, often when complaining about something
He was muttering (away) to himself.
He muttered something about the restaurant being too expensive.
"Emile Zola is the best writer", he muttered.
When two or more people have a mutual feeling, they have the same opinion about each other.
mutual admiration/respect
He doesn't like her, and I suspect the feeling's mutual.
It will hugely contribute to better understanding between the parties as well as add to a mutual respect and trust.
When two or more people have a mutual friend or interest, they have the same one.
Andrew and Jean were introduced to each other by a mutual friend.
They need someone who would help their dead, but still living, bodies look good and they find a victim - their mutual lover (Bruce Willis).
belonging to or relating to the person who is speaking or writing
my parents
my name
my jacket
Tom's my older son.
It wasn't my fault.
In my class, where there are about 15 people, I am learning very interesting things.
the reflexive form of the pronouns 'me' or 'I'
I've bought myself a new coat.
I caught sight of myself in the mirror.
Yes, I thought to myself, it's time to take a holiday.
I enjoyed myself a lot.
alone or without anyone's help
I couldn't carry all the luggage by myself.
I spent the night all by myself.
I made this chair myself.
I want to paint my bedroom, but it is hard for me to do this by myself.
used to emphasize 'I' as the subject of a sentence
I myself don't like a heavy meal at lunchtime.
I'll tell her myself.
Dear editor of 'The Student Tourist Guidebook' I am writing regarding your latest student tourist guidebook, which I myself found very useful on my latest trip to Lampton.
for my use only
I'll have the flat all to myself this weekend.
I need a couple of hours to myself.
This is because if I lived in a triple-storey house, I would get a room all to myself.
strange or unknown, and not explained or understood
a mysterious stranger
the mysterious death of her son
He died in mysterious circumstances, and there is still a possibility that it was murder.
He went to the Hotel because he wanted to find out who was the person that had sent him a mysterious letter a few days ago.
in a way that is mysterious
"Perhaps, and perhaps not," she said mysteriously.
Mysteriously, the light came on, although no one was near the switch.
Mysteriously, their character always dies tragically or goes abroad and is never seen again.
something strange or unknown which has not yet been explained or understood
an unsolved mystery
How the massive stones were brought here from hundreds of miles away remains a mystery.
He never gave up hope that he would solve the mystery of his son's disappearance.
He's out of work, so how he pays his rent is a mystery to me.
I have chosen this film because it has mystery in it and a lot of fun!!
an ancient story about gods and brave people, often one that explains an event in history or the natural world
ancient myths
the gods and goddesses of Greek and Roman myth
I spent three days there thinking about myths and legends and having a lot of fun.
an idea that is not true but is believed by many people
It's a myth that men are better drivers than women.
There is this myth that when you are on holiday you should spend your whole time at the beach, practically doing nothing.
a thin piece of metal with a sharp end, used to join pieces of wood together
a three-inch nail
I stepped on a nail sticking out of the floorboards.
Hammer a nail into the wall and we'll hang the mirror from it.
Sometimes in food given to animals by visitors you can find pieces of glass, nails or even poison.
the hard surface at the end of your fingers and toes
Stop biting your nails!
nail clippers
a nail file
She went to the hairdresser to have her hair cut, to the nails shop to have her nails done and finally she made her face up.
If someone is naive, they believe things too easily and do not have enough experience of the world.
I was much younger then, and very naive.
It might sound a bit idealistic and naive, but I think this concept of communication will make the world a better place.
not wearing clothes
a naked man
naked bodies
He was naked to the waist.
The children were half naked.
I cried out in anger and that was a mistake, because the girls turned around and looked at me, standing there naked.
A naked feeling or quality is not hidden, although it is bad.
naked aggression
This programme presents the naked truth about Brazil, this so called "Tropical Paradise".
If something can be seen by the naked eye, it is big enough to be seen without special equipment.
These bugs are so tiny you cannot see them with the naked eye.
the word or words that a person, thing or place is known by
"Hi, what's your name?" "My name's Diane."
Please write your full name and address on the form.
What's the name of that mountain in the distance?
That would be a good name for a dog.
The students were listed by name and by country of origin.
My friend's name is Martin.
the reputation that someone or something has
She went to court to clear her name.
Their actions gave British football a bad name in Europe at that time.
They're trying to restore the good name of the manufacturer.
He's the only one concerned about the good name of the family.
If bad things are done in the name of something, they are done in order to help that thing succeed.
So much blood has been spilt in the name of religion.
Recently, a Swedish priest compared homosexuality to cancer, and he did it in the name of religion.
to become famous or respected by a lot of people
He's been trying to make a name for himself in the music business.
Secondly, only a few sportsmen and sportswomen manage to make a name for themselves and get to the top.
to use impolite or unpleasant words to describe someone
He said the other children were calling him names.
He had never called me names or told me off.
used to show that the name of something tells you something about it
The Long Room, as its name implies, runs the entire length of the house.
Sour Sweet, as the name implies, is originally a Chinese restaurant.
to give someone or something a name
We named our dogs 'Shandy' and 'Belle'.
A man named Dennis answered the door.
She is named Maryam.
to say what something's or someone's name is
In the first question you had to name three types of monkey.
He couldn't name his attacker.
Not only "Tandoori dishes" but all the dishes are tasty, to name some there are Chinese, North Indian, and many others.
to choose someone or something
Just name the time and the place and I'll be there.
Name your conditions/terms/price.
Ms Martinez has been named (as) the new Democratic candidate.
He has been named as the best Latin singer and he has won two Grammys.
something that you say which means anything you say or choose
I've never seen such a wide selection. You name it, they've got it.
Courses vary from languages, management, computer- related fields to fitness, yoga, karate classes and all the different hobbies you might be interested in such as painting on silk or on wood, pottery, carving and the like. You name it, they have it at ECM.
used when you are going to give more detail about something you have just said
She learned an important lesson from failing that exam, namely that nothing is ever certain.
This network is used by the four most used means of transport in our city (namely, bus, car, bicycle and motorcycle) and has been plagued by problems such as potholes, poor drainage and poor use (or lack!) of traffic signs.
a short sleep
He likes to have/take a nap after lunch.
He usually takes a nap after lunch and at night goes to bed about 10.00 p.m.
a story or description of a series of events
It's a moving narrative of wartime adventure.
It is a happy ending, however, only because the narrative stops at this point.
the person who tells the story in a book, film, play, etc.
The narrator is a fisherman.
Leo Colston is the narrator and chief character through whose eyes we dive into the story.
Narrow things measure a small distance from one side to the other.
narrow streets
a narrow bridge/passage/gap
a narrow face
narrow feet
You will also see narrow streets with pubs and small cafes everywhere.
limited to a small area of interest, activity or thought
He has narrow interests.
It was regarded as a very narrow interpretation of the law.
People leave home with a narrow outlook and it doesn't seem to broaden.
If you have a narrow escape, you only just avoid danger.
He had a narrow escape when a falling tree crushed his car.
Ralph will have a narrow escape: he is saved by the arrival of a ship which has at last come to rescue them all.
to become less wide or to make something less wide
The road has been narrowed to one lane.
His eyes narrowed angrily.
Driving as well as parking has become a difficult task in Copenhagen City as the City Council has over the last few years deliberately cut down the numbers of parking places, raised the fees and narrowed the roads and streets.
to become less or to make something become less
to narrow the gap between rich and poor
I tend to believe that every country should join together, as only by discussing and sorting out some measures will we be able to narrow the gap that nowadays exists among countries all over the world.
only by a small amount
He narrowly escaped death in the accident.
She narrowly missed winning an Oscar.
They narrowly escaped crashing with the car in theopposite lane.
not willing to accept new ideas or opinions different from your own
My family are very narrow-minded.
He is a bit narrow-minded and at first he'll drive you crazy but once you get to know him, he'll be good company.
bad or unpleasant
a nasty shock/surprise
There's a nasty smell in here.
He had a nasty cut above the eye.
She has a nasty habit of picking on people in meetings.
Inside there were three samples of a nasty purple liquid.
unkind
Don't be so nasty to your brother - he's four years younger than you!
I though that it was a nasty joke made by a friend, but the address of the sender did not match with any that I knew.
very angry or violent
When I asked for the money, he turned really nasty.
He can sometimes be very nasty and say and do horrible things on and off the pitch.
a country or the people living in a country
the industrial nations
All the nations of the world will be represented at the conference.
Practically the whole nation watched the ceremony on television.
At that time, everyone should have devoted their life to the nation.
relating to or typical of a whole country and its people
a national holiday
Britain has more than ten national newspapers.
The company's national headquarters is in Rome.
The children were wearing traditional national costume/dress.
The government's view is that raising taxes now would not be in the national interest.
I like the music of the national anthem.
If you have American/British/Swiss, etc. nationality, you are legally a member of that country.
She has British nationality.
He has dual nationality.
What nationality are you?
At the International School they have pupils of 46 different nationalities.
My friend was born in Norway, but his nationality is Polish.
existing or happening in all parts of a particular country
a nationwide network/chain of shops
a nationwide survey
The nationwide blackout was the first in the past decade.
in all parts of a country
Schools nationwide are experiencing a shortage of teachers.
On Thursday, Friday or Saturday you could visit the annual festival, which is well-known nationwide for the music, costumes and dance of the local people.
Your native town or country is the place where you were born.
She returned to live and work in her native Japan.
She's a native Californian.
I am good, because in my native country, Austria, I worked in a cinema.
the first language that you learn
French is his native tongue.
My native language is Russian but I speak English fluently and I have been learning Latin for two years.
relating to the first people to live in an area
The Aborigines are the native inhabitants of Australia.
the native population
native customs and traditions
I am very happy to tell you about my trip to the Amazon forest native inhabitants museum.
Native animals or plants live or grow naturally in a place, and have not been brought from somewhere else.
a large bird native to Europe
Henderson Island in the Pacific has more than 55 species of native flowering plants.
someone who has spoken a particular language since they were a baby, rather than having learnt it as a child or adult
All our teachers are native speakers of English.
a native-speaker dictionary
My knowledge in foreign languages has to get better and the best way to do that is to get in contact with native speakers.
Something that is natural exists or happens because of nature, not because it was made or done by people.
natural ingredients
a natural substance
He died from natural causes.
Floods and earthquakes are natural disasters.
People say that breast-feeding is better than bottle-feeding because it's more natural.
We have wonderful beaches full of natural beauty.
normal or expected
Of course you're upset - it's only natural.
It's natural that you should feel anxious when you first leave home.
It's quite natural to experience a few doubts just before you get married.
So, of course, it was quite a natural thing for me to learn to drive a car as early as possible, and that was at the age of 18 when one could apply for a driving licence.
If you have a natural characteristic, it is something you have been born with.
a natural talent
She's a natural athlete/blonde.
Also my natural talent for entertaining people together with my past experience should be very useful working at the new theme park.
as you would expect
Naturally, he was very disappointed.
Naturally we had to take his word for it.
in a normal way
Relax and try to behave naturally.
As a result they can't behave naturally at all and become sick.
happening or existing as part of nature and not made or done by people
A healthy body will be able to fight off the illness naturally without the use of medicine.
He has naturally blonde hair.
Sometimes people say women are naturally stronger than men.
having been born with a characteristic
naturally aggressive/funny/slim
Clarisse McClellan is a spontaneous and naturally curious teenager who even enjoys simple things.
all the plants, creatures, substances, and forces that exist in the universe, which are not made by people
her love of nature
This new technique of artificially growing cells copies what actually happens in nature.
a nature article/book/programme
It's a nice place to relax and enjoy nature.
someone's character
As a child Juliana had a lovely nature - everyone liked her.
It's not really in her nature to be aggressive.
He is by nature inclined to be rather lazy.
Jane wasn't very suspicious by nature, but there was something weird in that.
type
What exactly is the nature of your business?
I don't like hunting and things of that nature.
He claims that he did not improve his English because of the nature of the job.
When children are naughty, or their behaviour is naughty, they behave badly.
You naughty boy!
Now that's naughty - you mustn't throw food on the floor!
Our boss treats us all like naughty schoolchildren.
But some naughty students in my class were throwing paper aeroplanes when the teacher was writing something on the board.
relating to the navy
a naval base/officer
It is irrefutable that naval areas are in most cases abandoned by their governments.
the part of a country's armed forces which is trained to operate at sea
My brother is an officer in the Navy.
Gabriel joined the navy in 1997.
a navy ship/vessel
Best of all, not only am I familiar with the life-style on a ship but I also know a lot of things about ships because I was in the navy.
very dark blue
He was wearing a navy blue sweater.
I think I will buy a navy blue carpet and black and blue furniture.
close in distance
Is there a train station near here?
We were near the exit.
The hotel is near the airport.
Don't come too near me - you might catch my cold.
Which bus stop is nearest (to) your house?
I moved my chair nearer to the fire.
The park is near my house, about 10 minutes on foot.
close in time
He arrived near the end of the lesson.
It was nearer four when we finally arrived.
We can decide which route to take nearer the time.
not close in distance, time, amount or quality
The house was nowhere near the sea.
It's nowhere near time for us to leave yet.
I'm nowhere near finishing the book - I'm only half-way through it.
He's nowhere near as tall as his sister.
Although people are well aware of the current situation in Switzerland, they prefer looking at other countries and comparing us to them (we are nowhere near as fat as them).
used in questions and negatives to mean 'close to being or doing something'
The house isn't anywhere near ready.
We could not have gone anywhere near 5000 miles because all our minibuses were broken down - we even stayed in one place for 8 days.
almost in a particular state or condition
The runners looked near exhaustion.
I was near (to) tears at one point during the film.
This is the nearest I've ever got to winning anything.
He came near to punching him.
It is strictly related to the fact that the old possess a vast amount of experience and are nearer to death.
close in distance
I was standing just near enough to hear what they were saying.
Don't come any nearer.
And they are getting nearer, I must run for my life.
close in time
Her birthday was getting nearer and I still hadn't bought her a present.
As the date of his operation drew near, he became more and more anxious.
I would appreciate very much if you could reply as soon as possible, as the school holiday is drawing near.
close in distance
Where's the nearest post office?
Dear Dan, My friends and I have decided to go to the nearest cinema, the one which is in The Mall, three blocks from here.
at a time that is not far away
Space travel may become very common in the near future.
I look forward to receiving your reply in the near future.
similar in characteristics or quality
My pocket knife is the nearest to a weapon that I have.
I couldn't get any cream cheese so I bought the nearest equivalent that I could find.
not far away
If there's a cafe nearby, we could stop for a snack.
I noticed a policeman standing nearby.
We can go swimming, and visit some of the beautiful castles nearby.
not far away
We stopped at some nearby shops to buy some food.
The nearby towns are lovely, very calm.
almost
It's been nearly three months since my last haircut.
I've nearly finished that book you lent me.
She's nearly as tall as her father now.
They'd eaten nearly everything before we arrived.
It was so funny - we nearly died laughing.
It will be nearly two hours.
a lot less
It's not nearly as expensive as I thought.
There are not nearly enough jobs to go round.
However this is not nearly enough, since we are restricted when it comes to using nuclear power and there is always a constant search for other energy sources.
tidy and clean
Your house is always so neat - how do you manage it with three children?
She likes everything neat and tidy.
You've got such neat handwriting.
I always go to this restaurant because it's neat and clean.
in a tidy way
neatly dressed
a neatly folded pile of clothes
The performers are all neatly dressed.
used in negatives to mean 'in every case' or 'therefore'
That's not necessarily true.
The fact that something is cheap doesn't necessarily mean it's of low quality.
You may love someone without necessarily wanting to marry them.
The most important point in a job interview is to give a good impression, which does not necessarily mean how you look.
needed in order to achieve something
If necessary, we can change the dates of our trip.
We don't want to take any more luggage with us than is necessary.
I won't stay any longer than necessary.
He lacks the necessary skills for the job.
Is it necessary to give so much detail?
If necessary, please contact me on my business e-mail address.
the need for something
There's no financial necessity for her to work.
Sewing is something I do out of necessity, not for pleasure.
Therefore, the most important lesson to learn is to acknowledge the necessity of education and the struggle to make it happen.
something you need
Most people seem to consider a car a necessity, not a luxury.
Mobile phones first appeared as a necessity in worldwide communications because, as the different business domains began to expand, the need for information and detailed facts about numerous aspects have emerged.
the part of the body which joins the head to the shoulders
He had the thickest neck I'd ever seen.
She wore a gold chain around her neck.
I was really shocked when I noticed it wasn't on my neck.
to be annoying
My brother can be a real pain in the neck sometimes.
He's adorable although sometimes he can really be a pain in the neck (don't tell him I wrote this.)
the part of a piece of clothing that goes around your neck
a polo-neck/V-neck jumper
When she was walking down the street feeling elated by the success of the business meeting, a gorgeous thirtyish man wearing a beige polo neck swiftly approached and turned towards her and smiled, revealing strong white teeth.
If two people who are competing are neck and neck, they are very close and either of them could win.
The two runners were neck and neck coming into the last lap.
It was a really neck and neck match that took my breath away every second.
a piece of jewellery that you wear around your neck
a gold/silver necklace
Dear Elaine, The party was wonderful and I got the necklace which I wanted so much.
If you need something, you must have it.
I need some new shoes.
Babies need constant care.
He needs an operation.
I need you to help me choose an outfit.
I badly need a rest from all this.
When you need help, everyone gives you help.
If you need to do something, it is necessary to do it.
I need to do some shopping on my way home from work.
I need to go to the toilet.
Do we need to go with her?
I need to learn English.
used in order to say that someone does not have to do something or should not do something
I can get there myself so you don't need to take me.
You needn't bring any food.
You don't need to bring anything, but if you want, you can bring some pencils.
If something needs something to be done to it, that thing should be done in order to improve it.
The car needs to be serviced.
This room needs brightening up a bit.
She needs her hair washing.
It is so beautiful but it needs washing all the time.
used to say that something is necessary
There needs to be more funding for education in this country.
Secondly, there needs to be a proper choice of subjects taught, because what we should get in the end is a versatile person, not just some maths or literature freak who is not interested in anything else.
something that is necessary to have or do
There's a growing need for cheap housing in the larger cities.
Is there any need to change the current system?
In conclusion, I believe that human beings will always have the need for knowledge and entertainment at the same time.
If there is no need to do something or no need for something, it is not necessary or it is wrong.
There's no need to go to the shops - there's plenty of food in the fridge.
I understand why she was angry but there was no need for that kind of language.
There's no need to shout, for goodness' sake! Just calm down.
He told me that I could trust him with the ticket and that there was no need for me to take it home.
to need something
My car's in desperate need of repair.
He is also constantly in need of money.
the things you need in order to have a good life
her emotional needs
The city is struggling to meet the needs of its homeless people.
I love swimming and cycling and that is why I want to ask if there are any facilities that could suit my needs?
a thin, pointed metal object with a small hole at one end for thread, used in sewing
a needle and thread
It was impossible for me to open the door, it was like threading a needle with gloves on.
the thin, sharp, metal part of a piece of medical equipment used to take blood out of the body or to put a liquid or medicine in
He fainted at the sight of the needle.
Nevertheless, for all the side effects they may have, for all the unpleasantness of having a needle stuck in your arm or a spoonful of foul-tasting liquid stuck in your mouth, antibiotics and vaccines remain the greatest discovery in the history of the world.
to push thread through the hole in a needle
Could you thread this needle for me, please?
as you would expect
Needless to say, it rained the whole time we were there.
Needless to say, bribes are a frequent occurrence.
not necessary
a needless expense
needless worrying
They not only go out and buy totally needless things but they even forget to save up for emergencies or the proverbial "rainy days".
A negative sentence or phrase is one which contains a word such as 'not', 'no', 'never' or 'nothing'.
'I've never seen him in my life' is a negative sentence.
'Don't' and 'do not' are negative forms of 'do'.
not having enthusiasm or positive opinions about something
negative feelings
Many people have a negative attitude towards ageing.
You're so negative about everything!
At the same time there were no negative opinions about the service from the visitors to "Fine food".
A negative effect is bad and causes damage to something.
Terrorist threats have had a very negative effect/impact on tourism.
Even if it provides a lot of advantages, this revolution in the world of communication also has a negative impact on our society.
expressing the answer no
We received a negative answer to our request.
Museums are the best example to show how life was in the past but when you ask teenagers whether they have been in a museum you will get a negative answer.
with a bad effect
They were very negatively affected by the changes.
Despite the huge facilities, technology has affected our lives negatively.
to not give enough care or attention to something or someone
to neglect your appearance
Some of these kids have been badly neglected in the past.
Is sport neglected by young people nowadays?
to not do something, often intentionally
He neglected to mention the fact that we could lose money on the deal.
Our colleagues at the museum apparently neglected to notify us.
when you do not give enough care or attention to something or someone
to suffer years of neglect
First of all, concerning the coaches, all I can say is that they were in a complete state of neglect.
when you are not careful enough in something you do, especially in a job where your actions affect other people
Her parents plan to sue the surgeon for medical negligence.
Despite this situation of state negligence, bad laws and scarce funding, sports have managed to survive the harsh years of transition and most importantly people have not lost their interest in sports.
not giving enough care or attention to a job or activity, especially where your actions affect someone else
The report found him negligent in his duties.
According to the research, a lot of people find it more difficult to go back to work after the holidays and tend to be more lax and negligent at work for the first few days.
small and not important
a negligible effect/result
The damage that the developing world is causing to the environment is almost negligible compared to the damage caused by the industrialised world.
to try to make or change an agreement by discussion
to negotiate with employers about working conditions
You should also negotiate the best terms for our client.
when people try to make or change an agreement by discussion
Peace negotiations are due to start.
The classes on different subjects connected with the practice of our work equipted us with essential techniques in business negotiations.
someone who lives very near you, especially in the next house
Some of the neighbours complained about the noise from our party.
Have you met Pat, my next-door neighbour?
My friends, neighbours and parents were there. I got a t-shirt and a cap.
someone or something that is near or next to someone or something else
The French make more films than some of their European neighbours.
Take 5 minutes to discuss this with your neighbour.
As a neighbour of Lithuania and Ukraine we had to learn the Russian language.
an area of a town or city that people live in
There were lots of kids in my neighbourhood when I was growing up.
They live in a very well-off neighbourhood.
The place I'm staying in is wonderful, and the whole neighbourhood is wonderful.
near or next to somewhere
neighbouring countries/states
She married a man from the neighbouring village.
We have to do concerts in the neighbouring towns.
used to say that a negative fact is also true of someone or something else
Jerry doesn't like it, and neither do I.
Her family wouldn't help her and neither would anyone else.
She's not very tall and neither is her husband.
Of course, she never thought those would be the lucky numbers and neither did her husband, so he forgot to ask her about the ticket later.
not either of two people or things
Luckily, neither child was hurt in the accident.
Neither of us had ever been to London before.
They gave us two keys, but neither worked.
"Which one would you choose?" "Neither."
Three years ago, when I was in Japan, my parents were both working and neither of them were at home by the time I got back from school.
used when a negative fact is true of two people or things or when someone or something does not have either of two qualities
Neither he nor his mother would talk to the police.
Their performance was neither entertaining nor educational.
I was just having a bath when the lights went out. ... No lights at all, neither the cooker nor the fridge were working in my flat, so what had happened?
a son of your sister or brother, or a son of the sister or brother of your husband or wife
My nephew is 21 today.
I went with my husband, my two sisters and some nieces and nephews.
worry or anxiety about something that is going to happen
I sometimes suffer from nerves when I'm speaking in public.
I need something to calm my nerves.
You might feel you need it to calm your nerves, but for obvious reasons (the law) it is better not to.
to annoy someone, especially by doing something again and again
Please stop making that noise! It really gets on my nerves.
My neighbour is always quarrelling with his wife. It's getting on my nerves!
one of the threads in your body which carry messages between your brain and other parts of the body
the optic nerve
nerve cells/endings
At the end, give him 3 pills, one for the high blood pressure, another for the heart and the last one for nerve problems.
the rudeness necessary to do something you know will upset someone
You've got a nerve, coming here!
I can't believe she had the nerve to talk to me after what happened.
When I advised him not to drive so fast because I didn't wanted to get myself killed, he had the nerve to say "Don't get your knickers in a twist, mam."
the quality of being brave
I haven't got the nerve to tell him I'm leaving.
He lost his nerve and couldn't go through with it.
She just never had the nerve to leave everything behind.
to upset someone by talking about a particular subject
By the look on her face, he really hit a nerve with that last remark.
Some of your articles strike a very sensitive nerve in my opinion.
the state of being nervous
I always suffer from nerves before a match.
I need something to calm my nerves.
I had to calm my nerves.
the ability to be calm in difficult situations
You need a cool head and steady nerves for this job.
I know very well you have steady nerves but what is strong can become weak as well.
to annoy someone, especially by doing something again and again
If we spend too much time together, we end up getting on each other's nerves.
Sometimes, receiving a phone call can disturb very important events in a person's life, but it also gets on people's nerves when you use it in a public place like a train...
worried or anxious
He gets very nervous before exams.
I was too nervous to speak.
I was very nervous about driving again after the accident.
She's always been nervous around dogs.
a nervous cough/laugh
I'm a little nervous because of that.
in a worried and anxious way
to giggle/laugh nervously
As always the girls sat down in the fifth row and waited nervously for the event to begin.
the state of being nervous
Her nervousness was obvious when she spoke.
Remember, by and large, failures are sparked off by nervousness.
a home built by birds for their eggs and by some other creatures to live in
a birds'/wasps' nest
The very rare 'Cove Owl' has chosen one of the empty tree trunks by the pond to build his nest.
a sum of money that has been saved or kept for a specific purpose
She used her nest egg to buy a really good piano.
She was the only heir of a rich family and her husband, who died ten years ago, left her a sizeable nest egg.
to live in a nest or build a nest
There are birds nesting under the roof.
If you stroll along the path on a Sunday morning, you can see robins nesting in the old honeysuckle bush.
the Internet
You can find all this information on the Net.
I like it because you can surf the Net and do a lot of other things.
an object that has many holes in it and that is used in many sports and for catching fish
a fishing net
a tennis/basketball net
His penalty kick placed the ball firmly in the back of the net.
I have the advantage of being quite tall and therefore I prefer to play at the net.
a system or group of connected parts
a road/rail network
Massive investment is needed to modernise the country's telephone network.
We could reduce our costs by developing a more efficient distribution network.
a network of spies/a spy network
Switzerland is a safe, small and beautiful country that is perfect to travel in, because of the best public transport network in the world.
a set of computers that are connected to each other
All our offices are on the same network.
In the future, the fridge, the television, the stove and the Hi-Fi equipment will be attached to a computer network.
a group of people who know each other or who work together
a large network of friends
It is quite easy to build a network of friends worldwide when travelling abroad.
a large television or radio company that broadcasts programs in many areas
She worked for the network for more than 10 years.
So the Swiss television network decided to produce a Swiss soap opera.
a group of people who know each other or who work together
a large network of friends
It is quite easy to build a network of friends worldwide when traveling abroad.
the activity of meeting and contacting people who might be useful to know, especially for your job
I often go to networking events.
I am sure there are many other benefits working can bring to us, apart from the enjoyment, networking, etc. that I have mentioned above, and of course the money it makes.
independent and not supporting any side in an argument, fight, or competition
neutral ground/territory
He decided to remain/stay neutral on the issue.
Thus, its main advantage is that the information you get is not provided by a company or something like that but by a neutral person.
Neutral colours are not strong or bright.
Try neutral creams and greys.
Throughout the house the carpets are brand new and lovely neutral colours.
not ever, not one time
We've never been to Australia.
I've never heard anything so ridiculous.
Let us never forget those who gave their lives for their country.
Wars never solve anything.
He threatened to shoot, but I never thought he would.
It's never too late to start eating a healthy diet.
I never have enough time to do it.
used to tell someone not to worry about something because it is not important
"I'm afraid I've lost that wallet you gave me." "Well, never mind, I can easily buy you another one."
Never mind Ally, forget it, I know you've been busy.
used to emphasize something negative
I never knew you lived around here.
I never knew what happened after I left.
If something is never-ending, it continues for ever.
The housework in this place is just never-ending.
We are often forced to study till about thirty years of age, and it really appears to be a never-ending story.
despite that
I knew a lot about the subject already, but her talk was interesting nevertheless.
Both the options you gave seem very interesting. Nevertheless, I get the impression that working with animals is much more fun, don't you think?
recently made or having started to exist recently
a new car
She's very creative and always coming up with new ideas.
What's new in the fashion world?
We have to invest in new technology if we are to remain competitive.
It was a new bike - she never buys anything second-hand.
My friend likes motorbikes and now he will buy a new motorbike.
not known or discovered before
I love learning new languages.
I learnt a new word today.
This new cancer treatment offers hope to many sufferers.
New evidence has since emerged.
Every day at college I learn new words and new things in my life.
different from before
I met Fiona's new boyfriend.
She's looking for a new job.
Have you seen Anna's new house?
a new generation of software
In the disco I can meet more new people.
not yet familiar or experienced
I'm new to the area.
She's new to the job so you can't expect her to know everything yet.
New staff are given training.
I met a guy called Marc who is pretty cool. He is also new to the club.
new people in an organization who will provide new ideas and energy
We need some new blood in the organization.
It will give new opportunities to new generations and thus will provide new blood in the different organisations.
to start to behave in a better way
I'm not drinking any more - I've turned over a new leaf.
She promised to turn over a new leaf.
to do something that is different to anything that has been done before
Their research is really breaking new ground.
Paul decided to break new ground in music no matter how long it took.
recently
the newly formed residents' association
Newly discovered documents cast doubt on the guilt of the two men.
The book is about a newly qualified doctor, Andrew Manson, who starts his career in a small town.
new information
I've got some good/bad news for you.
That's the best (piece of) news I've heard for a long time!
We've had no news of them since they left for Australia.
Have you heard the news about Tina? She's leaving.
Do write and tell us all your news.
Write soon, I'm waiting for good news from you too!
the announcement of important events on television, radio, and in newspapers
It was on the 6 o'clock news.
I usually listen to/watch the 9 o'clock news.
It'll be shown next Thursday, just after the news.
to affect someone badly/well
This weather is bad news for farmers.
Focusing now on Kavanagh Catering Services, it could be said that for them price is the main variable - obviously this is good news for students.
to be a surprise to someone
He's leaving? Well that's certainly news to me.
to tell someone about something unpleasant that has happened
Who's going to break the news to his wife?
She broke the news to his wife Helen.
a regular report with information for people who belong to an organization or who are interested in a particular subject
a monthly newsletter about business and the environment
And if you decide to use our newsletter service, you'll always be up-to-date.
large, folded sheets of paper which are printed with the news and sold every day or every week
She never reads a newspaper.
a daily/Sunday newspaper
a local/national newspaper
I read about it in the newspaper.
He gets up every day at 6 o'clock, has breakfast and reads the newspaper.
paper from newspapers
You'd better wrap that mirror up in newspaper before you put it in the car.
You should wear your old clothes and please bring some old newspaper.
the week/year/Monday, etc. that follows the present one
I'll call you next week.
I'm planning to visit California next year.
Are you doing anything next Wednesday?
See you next week.
The next time, event, person, or thing is the one nearest to now or the one that follows the present one.
What time's the next train to London?
We're going to be very busy for the next few months.
My next free day is Saturday 20th and we can meet at my place.
The next place is the one nearest to the present one.
She only lives in the next village.
Turn left at the next roundabout.
At the first roundabout turn right, and then at the next roundabout turn right again.
the thing that is best, if you cannot have or do the thing you really want
Coaching football is the next best thing to playing.
For many working people, there is hardly time to cook and prepare your dinner, so the next best thing is to rush into a Macdonalds' or Burger King.
used to talk about part of a story that happens in a sudden and surprising way
A car came speeding round the corner, and the next thing I knew I was lying on the ground.
And the next thing I knew was that I was playing cards with 3 men.
immediately after
You'll never guess what happened next.
Where shall we go next?
First, fry the garlic. Next, add the ginger.
Next, turn left and you will be in front of my house.
The time when you next do something is the first time you do it again.
Could you get some coffee when you next go to the supermarket?
I will talk to you about it much more when I next see you.
the person or thing that follows the present person or thing
Who's next to see the nurse?
Blue roses? Whatever next?
the weekend/week/Thursday, etc. that follows the next one
We're seeing Paul the Saturday after next.
in the next room, house, or building
That's the old man who lives next door to Paul.
Maria didn't understand, but then she realized that the man she was looking for lived next door.
in the next room, house, or building
What are your next-door neighbours like?
He has just moved from a large city and now he is my new next-door neighbour.
very close to something or someone, with nothing in between
Come and sit next to me.
The factory is right next to a residential area.
I left it in your bedroom, next to your desk.
pleasant or attractive
Did you have a nice holiday?
We had some really nice food.
Have a nice day/time!
Thanks for ringing - it's been nice talking to you.
You look nice in that dress.
She makes very nice food.
kind and friendly
He's a really nice guy.
She seemed very nice.
She was very nice to me.
It was very nice of her to drive you home.
My teacher is very nice.
used to emphasize a positive quality
nice and clean
This chair's nice and comfy.
I've just bought a new lamp for my bedroom. ... I put it by the bed and in front of the door because it's nice and colourful.
well
That table would fit nicely in the bedroom.
His business is doing very nicely.
It is a pleasant, easy book with useful, active vocabulary and short, nicely constructed sentences.
in a pleasant way
She's always very nicely dressed.
If you ask your dad nicely, he might drive you there.
All the rooms are big, clean and nicely decorated.
a name used informally instead of your real name
His behaviour has earned him the nickname 'Mad Dog'.
In school I had the nickname the Joker, because I had the ability to make other people laugh.
a daughter of your brother or sister, or a daughter of your husband's or wife's brother or sister
We're taking my niece on holiday with us.
I bought a purple sweater and I want to knit one like mine for my niece.
the time in every 24 hours when it is dark and people usually sleep
It gets cold at night.
I slept really badly last night.
I spent the night at Ted's.
He took the night ferry/train.
The phone rang in the middle of the night.
They're open from 7 in the morning until 10 o'clock at night.
Cracov is an interesing place and looks nice at night.
the period from the evening to the time when you go to sleep
We're seeing them on Saturday night.
I've been out every night this week.
Did you have a good time last night?
You can go to the disco and dance all night.
a night when you are not able to sleep
He'd spent a sleepless night worrying about his exam.
Most of the rooms we stayed in did not have air-conditioning, which caused many sleepless nights to the majority of us due to the intense heat.
a place where you can dance and drink at night
We had a meal and then went to a nightclub.
We can visit local pubs or nightclubs which I think you will like.
entertainment for the night such as bars, clubs, restaurants, and theatres
What's the nightlife like around here?
The nightlife in my country is wonderful!
a very unpleasant experience
Being trapped underwater is my worst nightmare.
The whole journey was a nightmare - we lost our luggage and we arrived two days late.
In a word, the holiday became a nightmare: every day we had to buy everything lost by the company.
a frightening dream
a terrifying nightmare
I shouldn't have watched that movie - it'll give me nightmares.
Every night I had a nightmare.
the number 9
a nine-month prison sentence
The birthday girl was wearing a badge with a nine on it.
I start college at half past nine.
to be extremely happy and excited
After I heard I'd got the job, I was on cloud nine!
But now, after the promise in which both said "yes", she was on cloud nine.
the number 19
eighteen, nineteen, twenty
Her daughter is nineteen.
I had a birthday party in my house when I became nineteen.
the number 90
eighty, ninety, a hundred
Ninety percent of the people surveyed were in favour.
It costs ninety euros, a good price.
to be aged between 90 and 99
He is in his nineties now.
the years from 1990-1999
I spent most of the nineties travelling around the world.
Another aspect which shows us the danger that the car represents to human life in the nineties is pollution.
9th written as a word
The ninth letter of the alphabet is I.
The school term ends on the ninth (of July).
My free day is Tuesday the ninth of December.
something that you say in order to disagree, give a negative answer, or say that something is not true
"You told me." "No, I didn't!"
"Can I have another chocolate?" "No, you've had enough."
"Do you like him?" "No."
"Did you get some bread?" "No, sorry, I forgot."
"Have you got any homework tonight?" "No."
I was in the office last week, but she said: "No!"
something that you say to agree with something that is negative
"He's not very bright, is he?" "No, I'm afraid not."
used to refuse an offer politely
"Would you like a drink?' 'No thanks, I've just had one."
something that you say when you are shocked and upset
Oh no! It's gone all over the carpet!
Oh no!
not any
The work should be done no later than Friday.
There were no more than fifteen people at the concert.
In no more than ten lines, my mother explained that she was moving to Brazilia, the capital of our country, and that she would take me and my brother with her.
not any
There's no butter left.
There are no pockets in these trousers.
That's my kind of holiday - no telephone, no computer and no worries.
There's no chance of us getting there by eight.
Dear Ally, that's no problem about the party.
used in signs and on notices to show that something is not allowed
No smoking/fishing
No problem.
The local authority has posted 'No Fishing' signs in Riverside Park.
something that you say to mean you can or will do what someone has asked you to do
"Can you get me to the airport by 11.30?" - "No problem."
Dear Jo, No problem. I can help you.
something that you say when someone has thanked you for something
"Thanks for taking me home." - "No problem."
It's ok, no problem.
used to tell someone that something is impossible
I'm sorry but there's no way we can help you.
No way will she agree to you leaving early.
Don't worry, there is no way I'm going to miss it!
it is not surprising
No wonder the children are excited - this is the first time they've been abroad.
"If brutal killers like these two are at work, it is no wonder that so many people have fled," he said.
No wonder that people are more tired and are not interested in reading books as much as in the past.
If there is no need to do something or no need for something, it is not necessary or it is wrong.
There's no need to go to the shops - there's plenty of food in the fridge.
I understand why she was angry but there was no need for that kind of language.
There's no need to shout, for goodness' sake! Just calm down.
He told me that I could trust him with the ticket and that there was no need for me to take it home.
to not be useful, helpful or valuable
Boots are no good if they aren't waterproof.
Food aid isn't much good until the fighting stops.
When it is raining, you get wet and that's no good to anyone.
used to emphasize that something does not exist
There's no such thing as ghosts!
But when I asked for these, I was told that no such thing existed and so the advertisement was once again proved wrong.
used to emphasize that something cannot be changed
I never manage to lose any weight, no matter how hard I try.
No matter where you are or what you do, apparently you need electricity.
used to say that something is very likely
No doubt she'll spend the money on new clothes.
No doubt I will find the skills acquired on the course, especially speaking skills, most useful in my future contacts with clients from English-speaking countries.
none at all
There's no evidence whatsoever that she was involved.
Moreover, the hotel we were finally dumped in was situated miles from Edinburgh city centre and there was no entertainment whatsoever arranged for the evening, even though all the travellers were more or less stuck there.
used when you want to emphasize that an act or achievement is very difficult
Learning to ski at 60 is no mean feat!
There was an interesting discussion about whether it was harder or easier for them to enter the world of cinema, given their famous names. Both said that it was no mean feat because people were more demanding as to their abilities.
honest, brave, and kind
a noble gesture
He was a generous, noble man.
Charity is a very noble way of spending your money and it is definitely a way in which you would want to be remembered.
belonging to the highest social group of a society
She was born into an ancient, noble family.
Capodistrias, coming from a noble family of the Ionian islands played, as a diplomat and mainly as Russia's Foreign Minister, an important role to the new European structure after the destruction of Napoleon's Empire (1814).
no person
Nobody called.
Nobody agreed with me.
There was nobody there I could ask.
Sally helped me but nobody else bothered.
There was a pool but nobody went in because it was too cold.
to move your head up and down as a way of agreeing, to give someone a sign, or to point to something
Many people in the audience nodded in agreement.
When I suggested a walk, Elena nodded enthusiastically.
She looked up and nodded for me to come in.
She approached him calmly, showing no signs of nervousness or uncertainty. "Do you have it?" He nodded and shoved his hand into the left pocket of his jacket.
a sound, often a loud, unpleasant sound
The noise out in the street was deafening.
Stop making so much noise!
The engine was making funny noises.
I heard a loud noise and ran to the window.
traffic/background noise
In college I don't like too much noise.
making a lot of noise
a noisy crowd of fans
noisy neighbours
I don't remember who was there... it was very busy and noisy!
to officially suggest a person for a job or a position in an organization, or to suggest a person or their work for a prize
Judges are nominated by the governor.
The film was nominated for an Academy Award.
He was nominated as best actor.
Being an Ambassador for Youth bears a lot of responsibility, not only because the person must be of outstanding character and well-known, but also because they must behave accordingly and be able to convey a positive message. After deep consideration, I have decided to nominate Jovanotti, alias Lorenzo Cherubini.
the act of officially suggesting a person for a job or their work for a prize
to seek/win a nomination
He won the Democratic nomination for mayor of Chicago.
She has just received her fourth Oscar nomination.
Please allow me to support this nomination by pointing out some facts.
not any
None of us smoke(s).
None of my children has/have blonde hair.
"I'd like some more cheese." "I'm sorry there's none left".
"Have you any idea how much this cost?" "None at all/None whatsoever."
Since none of us had been there before we hired a guide who claimed that he knew English and then we began looking at the ruins.
If something is none of someone's business, they do not need to know about it, although they want to, because it does not affect them.
I'm certainly not going to tell Lara how much money I've spent - it's none of her business!
You might think it's none of my business, but I simply have to say this.
not at all clean/clever/pleased, etc.
His clothes were none too clean.
So, without further ado I accepted, although I was none too sure of what was going to happen there.
not any happier/poorer/wiser, etc. than before
She must have explained the theory three times, but I'm still none the wiser.
despite what has just been said
He was extremely rude in meetings. Nonetheless, his arguments found some support.
Nonetheless, all the people from whom I have received letters are satisfied, as well as their children, who enjoyed the stories and the pony rides very much.
not existing
We knew our chances of success were non-existent.
The rooms weren't very tidy and room service is non-existent.
If something someone has said or written is nonsense, it is silly and not true.
She talks such nonsense sometimes.
He dismissed the accusations as complete/utter nonsense.
What a load of nonsense!
It's nonsense to suggest that they could have cheated.
I feel totally disappointed and I would like my money back, because everything in the advertisement was nonsense.
to spoil something or make it seem stupid
Cuts to the text made a nonsense of the play.
It really makes a nonsense of our claim to be civilized when one thinks of all the poor, helpless people that live under deplorable conditions.
describes a place where people are not allowed to smoke
Let's get a table in the non-smoking area.
You can also choose between a smoking and a non-smoking area.
12 o'clock in the middle of the day
He has until noon to act.
The service will be held at 12 noon.
I'll start at 12 noon and remember to wear an apron.
no person
No one told me she was ill.
There was no one there.
"Who was there?" "No one you would know."
I'd like to go to the concert but no one else wants to.
I would like to come but my mother is sick and no one else can look after her.
used when a negative fact is true of two people or things or when someone or something does not have either of two qualities
Neither he nor his mother would talk to the police.
Their performance was neither entertaining nor educational.
I was just having a bath when the lights went out. ... No lights at all, neither the cooker nor the fridge were working in my flat, so what had happened?
used to say that a negative fact is also true of someone else
"I don't like cats." "Nor do I."
I've never been to Iceland." "Nor have I."
I can't be at the meeting and nor can Andrew.
In fact when Mrs. McGillicuddy told the train assistant about that, he did not believe her. Nor did the Police, to whom Mrs. McGillicuddy wrote about what she had seen.
the usual way that something happens
Short-term job contracts are the norm nowadays.
The graph indicates the norm for children per family in three different countries.
an accepted way of behaving in a particular society
cultural/social norms
Social norms and values, as well as the national regulations, differ from country to country, resulting in the different view upon such an issue as child labour.
usual, ordinary, and expected
a normal working day
Lively behaviour is normal for a four-year-old child.
It's normal to argue with your partner now and then.
They were selling the goods at half the normal cost.
The temperature was above/below normal for the time of year.
Now that everyone's back from their holidays, things are back to normal.
We have to bring a pencil case with some coloured pencils, a rubber and a normal pencil.
to go back to a previous condition
Life has begun to return to normal now that the war is over.
After exactly ten minutes the electricity was switched on again and our life returned to normal - what a relief!
a situation in which everything is happening normally
a return to normality
Looking forward to an escape from normality and the narrowness of Switzerland, I had travelled to Australia, where my expectations had been smashed as my travel group had not consisted of five other young backpackers, but a group of thirty tourists, all squeezed into a coach.
usually
She doesn't normally arrive until ten.
Normally, I plan one or two days ahead.
I normally order fried fish.
in the ordinary way that you would expect
Both lungs are now functioning normally.
She's behaving perfectly normally for a two-year-old.
But the truth is that those animals are not behaving normally.
the direction that is on your left when you face towards the rising sun
The points of the compass are North, South, East and West.
The stadium is to the north of the city.
My new house is near the cinema, in North street.
the part of an area that is further towards the north than the rest
They live in the north of the country.
Most of the country will be dry tomorrow, but the north will have some rain.
I'm in Santander, in the north of Spain.
in or forming the north part of something
North America/Africa
the north coast of Iceland
It was about a team who went to visit North America.
towards the north
The road leads north.
From that beach, we continued north and visited other small beaches.
the direction which is between north and east or the northeast part of a country
They live in the northeast.
The owner is from the northeast of China.
in the northeast, or facing towards the northeast
I don't really know the northeast part of the country.
You should visit the Northeast Region which is famous for its white sandy beaches which are fringed with coconut trees.
in or from the north part of an area
northern Europe
the Northern Hemisphere
Last Summer I went to Chiang Mai, in northern Thailand with my family.
the direction which is between north and west or the northwest part of a country
The wind is coming from the northwest.
in the northwest, or facing towards the northwest
We climbed the northwest face of the mountain.
My cousin lives in the northwest part of London and so I took the underground to central London every day.
the part of your face through which you breathe and smell
a big nose
I've got a sore throat and a runny nose.
Come on now, stop crying and blow your nose.
It has a small nose, two big eyes, and wears a dress.
to show too much interest in a situation that does not involve you
You shouldn't go sticking your nose into other people's business!
John started poking his nose into her life.
to not accept something because you do not think it is good enough for you
He turned his nose up at my offer of soup, saying he wanted a proper meal.
Moreover, she will not turn her nose up at anybody who might be considered less worthy than her.
If something bad happens under your nose, it happens close to you but you do not notice it.
They were stealing money from under my nose.
You will be surprised that there was something right under your nose that you could not live without.
a feeling of happiness mixed with sadness when you think about things that happened in the past
his nostalgia for his college days
Finally the feeling of nostalgia remains and a certain pride that Eastern Germany was not entirely imprisoned but had its own "Spreewald" pickles.
feeling both happy and sad when you think about things that happened in the past
Talking about those holidays has made me feel quite nostalgic.
While listening to what people interviewed were saying, I couldn't help feeling a bit sad in a nostalgic way.
one of the two holes at the end of your nose
Breathe in through one nostril.
When he finally reached the house and managed to open the door, a musty stench assaulted his nostrils.
always trying to find out private things about other people
nosy neighbours
Don't be so nosy!
He is a wonderful neighbour who, without being nosy, has given us a sense of security, that somebody is there if we ever need anything without the feeling of being watched or spied upon.
used to form a negative phrase after verbs like 'be', 'can', 'have', 'will', 'must', etc., usually used in the short form 'n't' in speech
He's not fat!
I won't tell her.
I can't go.
Don't you like her?
It isn't difficult.
I'm just not interested.
He's not bad-looking!
He's not as tall as his father.
It's not a problem for me.
used to give the next word or group of words a negative meaning
I told you not to do that.
I like most vegetables but not cabbage.
"Come and play football, Dad." "Not now, Jamie."
It was Yuko who said that, not Richard.
You know I go to college but not every day.
used after verbs like 'be afraid', 'hope', 'suspect', etc. in short, negative replies
"Is he coming with us?" "I hope not."
"Have you finished?" "I'm afraid not."
used to express the possibility that something might not happen
Are you going to reply or not?
I still don't know whether she's coming or not.
Are you busy or not that day?
used to say what the situation will be if something does not happen
I hope to see you there but, if not, I'll call you.
I'm going to paint my bedroom with the pink paint. Remember to put on your old clothes. If not, your clothes will become pinky and you can't use them anymore.
used before adjectives and adverbs to mean 'not very'
"How was your exam?" "Not too bad, I suppose."
I didn't play too well today.
He wasn't too happy when I told him about the mistake.
How are you? I'm not too bad.
satisfactory
That's not bad for such a small company.
The presents are not bad.
used to form questions when you think the answer will be 'yes', using the short form 'n't'
She's very pretty, isn't she?
You like cheese, don't you?
I know that you love horror movies, don't you?
used as a polite reply after someone has thanked you
"Thanks for helping." "Not at all."
"Hello Cédric, it's Christophe from Alcatel. I hope I'm not disturbing you?" "Not at all, I'm just on holiday".
used to say that something is true although it seems surprising
He even remembered my birthday, believe it or not.
First I visited the "Roman Bath'' which is more than 2000 years old and, believe it or not, it still works!
used to emphasize the fact that something does not happen or is not true
"I never cry." "Not even when you hurt yourself really badly?"
Nobody spoke, not even the children.
We tried to fish, but didn't catch a thing, not even a shoe!
used to say 'no' or 'not' strongly
"Was he a nuisance?" "No, not at all."
I'm not at all happy about it.
I sensed that invisible hand was touching my shoulder, but it didn't scare me, not at all.
used to say that more than one thing is true
Not only was the hotel expensive, it was dirty too.
You have let down not only yourself, but the entire team.
In this show, not only can we see the latest fashions, sportswear, make-up and hairstyles, but we can also enter for free.
to be much less good/bad/exciting, etc. than something else
Her new book's not half as good as the last one.
Probably they wouldn't be half as famous as they are without press photographers, journalists, etc.
used to emphasize the importance of something that you are adding to a list
The resort has great hotels and restaurants, not to mention some of the best skiing in the region.
It is crowded everywhere, the shop assistants are stressed, you get to wait for hours to pay for your goods, not to mention the time you must wait to get them wrapped.
almost but not completely
I'm not quite sure that I understand this.
The colours almost match but not quite.
He didn't get quite enough votes to win.
The student cafe has a welcoming atmosphere and most people said it was nice to sit and to drink coffee there. The only problem is that there are not quite enough tables and chairs for everyone at busy times.
used to emphasize that there is nothing of what you are talking about
Not one person came to hear him talk.
"You haven't heard from Nick, have you?" "Not a word."
Nowadays, I can only see buildings and roads. Not one single tree to refresh yourself from the hot and tropical sun at midday.
used after an adverb in short, negative replies
"She's not exactly poor, is she?" "Certainly not."
"We won't need much money, will we?" "Hopefully not."
That's nice, but do you think that money is all that matters? Definitely not!
especially
The whole trip was fascinating, not least because of the people I met.
We are all human beings but we are all different, not least because of a different cultural background.
not at all
I don't mind staying at home, not in the least.
Educating two children was not so easy a task, not in the least!
important or interesting
With one notable exception, everyone replied to my letter.
A notable exception is the advertising of so-called "slow-food" restaurants, which promote a healthy lifestyle.
especially or most importantly
They have begun attracting investors, most notably big Japanese financial houses.
As I have already indicated, the content (what they teach you) is very good, notably the training of speaking skills and a number of special courses, for example: How to Negotiate.
a short letter
He left a note to say he would be home late.
Did you get my note?
There's a note pinned to the door saying when the shop will open again.
Hi Rie Thank you for your note to me!
information that is written down to help you study, or to help you remember something you are going to write about
The journalist took notes throughout the interview.
I studied European literature, and I still have all my notes.
You have to bring with you a pencil, some chalk and a big notebook to take some notes and to draw in.
a piece of paper money
a ten-pound note
This was because the suitcase was full of stolen bank notes.
a short explanation or an extra piece of information that is given at the bottom of a page or at the back of a book
See note 3, page 37.
to write down information about something
Let me make a note of your phone number.
After talking to other members, I have made a note of the main problems they considered the most urgent to be solved.
If two people compare notes, they tell each other what they think about something that they have both done.
We compared notes about our experiences in China.
In conclusion, regular meetings between parents and school teachers ... help both parties to compare notes, acting in the best interests of the children.
to pay careful attention to something
Make sure you take note of what she says.
Safety standards are being tightened. Employers, take note.
I thank you for taking note of my view.
a particular feeling or mood
a sad/serious/positive note
His speech had just the right note of sympathy.
On a more practical note: I found the information pack I received beforehand insufficient.
a single musical sound or the symbol that represents it
I'll just play the notes on the piano.
It was as if an external force was stopping him from playing the notes.
someone or something famous or important
A medieval church is the only monument of note in the town.
to notice something
They noted the consumers' growing demand for quicker service.
Please note (that) we will be closed on Saturday.
Note how easy it is to release the catch quickly.
Please note that I am available for an interview.
a book with empty pages that you can write in
She was writing things down in a little notebook.
We have to bring with us a notebook, a pen, a pencil and a rubber.
not anything
I've had nothing to eat all day.
There's nothing left.
Nothing I could say would cheer her up.
I have nothing new to tell you.
There's nothing else we can do to help.
There's nothing much to do in our village.
This Sunday afternoon I have nothing to do.
not something important or of value
He's a dangerous person - human life means nothing to him.
She kept crying about nothing.
A thousand pounds is nothing to a woman of her wealth.
Don't worry, it's nothing serious.
no other thing than
She did nothing but criticize.
You can read books in the open air while nothing but sea surrounds you.
to have no connection or influence with someone or something
He made his own decision - I had nothing to do with it.
Of course, I tried to explain to him that I had nothing to do with the vanishing of the cake but he didn't trust me.
If something is or has nothing to do with you, you have no good reason to know about it or be involved with it.
I wish he wouldn't offer advice on my marriage - it's nothing to do with him.
The party was horrible: the guests were all talking about things that had nothing to do with me.
without a successful result
I've come all this way for nothing.
Unfortunately, I waited for nothing. The TV repair man didn't come!
to be willing to do anything in order to achieve something
He will stop at nothing to get what he wants.
They stopped at nothing to get the higher scores, to make themselves noticed, even if that meant telling some lies to a teacher about a schoolmate.
used to emphasize that something is not true
He said that he was a legitimate businessman - in fact, he was nothing of the sort.
It was supposed to be a gourmet meal, but it was nothing of the kind.
Let me reassure you, nothing of the sort is happening at the moment.
used to emphasize a quality
The senator was nothing if not honest.
Well, I might be a bit biased but really, he is nothing if not extraordinary.
used to emphasize other problems you have not talked about
Most wild otters have disappeared from populated areas, to say nothing of wilderness areas.
Indeed would not it be an oversimplification to make one's judgement of the country's national character on the grounds of the amount and the quality of food people eat, to say nothing of the fact that this judgement is usually highly subjective?
used to say that it is worth trying something, even if you may not succeed
It will be quite expensive ... still, nothing ventured nothing gained!
It was a demanding task to prepare it but nothing ventured nothing gained.
to see something and be aware of it
I noticed a crack in the ceiling.
Mary waved at the man but he didn't seem to notice.
He noticed (that) the woman was staring at him.
Did you notice how she did that?
I was having a coffee with Luca, a friend of mine, when I noticed something was missing: it was my favourite ring, you know, the light pink one!
a sign giving information about something
There was a large notice on the wall saying 'No Parking'.
I saw a notice in the paper announcing their marriage.
Nick - I've seen the notice about the concert.
a warning that something will happen
The next time you visit, can you give me more notice?
The building is closed until further notice.
The emergency services are ready to spring into action at a moment's notice.
I'm sorry for the short notice.
I apologize for the short notice.
attention
I didn't take any notice of his advice.
I didn't take notice of it and deleted it again.
only a short time before something happens
I had to give a speech at very short notice.
The fact that the speech by the famous actor was cancelled at short notice was disappointing.
to tell your employer that you are going to stop working for them
I'm planning to hand in my notice tomorrow.
easy to see or be aware of
There was a noticeable difference in his behaviour after the injury.
What was noticeable all over Warsaw were the overfilled garbage cans and litter in the streets that nobody cleaned up.
in a way that is noticeable
He was noticeably reluctant to meet her.
The new results were noticeably better than the last ones.
The teachers' salaries are noticeably the largest part in the charts.
a board on the wall where you put advertisements and announcements
I saw the ad on the noticeboard.
I put an advertisement on the noticeboard in the hall of the hotel and luckily, after a week, a very kind girl sent me the sweater.
to officially tell someone about something
You should notify the police if you are involved in a road accident.
The court notified her that her trial date had been postponed.
You must notify the director if you are not going to sleep in your room.
an idea or belief
The notion of sharing is unknown to most two-year-olds.
Unfortunately, in ancient Greece, although the notion of the republic and democracy were invented and quite successfully developed there, not being a noble citizen could be cruelly disappointing and painful.
famous for something bad
a notorious criminal
She was notorious for her bad temper.
Apart from this, Bristol is notorious for its poor social policy for the people who are on the poverty line.
despite
Injuries notwithstanding, he won the semi-final match.
Notwithstanding this zealous kind of complaint, it would appear to me that they had great fun during the third day when after the English lesson they went to the swimming pool.
a word that refers to a person, place, thing, event, substance or quality
'Doctor', 'tree', 'party', 'coal' and 'beauty' are all nouns.
a book that tells a story about imaginary people and events
historical/romantic novels
Have you read any of Jane Austen's novels?
His latest novel is selling really well.
Yesterday I was sat on the bench under a tree in that wonderful garden and I was reading an interesting novel by Jane Austen, when a charming young boy came near to me.
a person who writes novels
His father was a novelist.
My teacher has told me that you are a British novelist who writes crime stories, and you have come to live in our area.
the quality of being new or unusual
The fashion industry relies on novelty, and photographers are always looking for new faces.
Olivia's story takes place in a romantic atmosphere, which may allow the reader to look upon the colonial period as a dream; it sounds like a legend, a fairy tale, which fulfills an important purpose of novels: the appeal of novelty.
an object, event, or experience that is new or unusual
Tourists are still a novelty on this remote island.
Our city needed a novelty like this and fortunately the dream came true!
the eleventh month of the year, after October and before December
5(th) November/November 5(th)
Guy Fawkes' Night is on the fifth of November.
The factory opened last November.
He's starting his new job in November.
I have an exam on 22nd of November 2006.
at the present time
I'm used to it now.
She used to be a teacher, but now she works in publishing.
I thought you'd have finished by now.
You should have mentioned it before now.
That's all for now.
I am now vegetarian!
immediately
We're going home now.
Shall we eat now or later?
I don't want to wait until tomorrow, I want it now!
I can't do it right now.
Please, buy it right now.
a very short time ago
When I came in just now, everyone was laughing.
Who was that woman who was speaking just now?
I was watching a badminton competition just now.
used to show the length of time that something has been happening, from the time it began until the present
I've lived in Cambridge for two years now.
She's been a vegetarian for ten years now.
If something happens now and then, it happens sometimes but not very often.
I love chocolate, but I only eat it now and then.
If you really love to have a snack now and then, try to eat fruit and vegetables, instead of sweets.
used to say that something will happen very soon
We're expecting our second child any day now.
The evil creatures who were bound to come out of the dark would see Carla any minute now.
sometimes, but not often
We still meet up every now and then.
Each day choose 10 new words and learn them by heart. In a week you will have learned 70 new words, and in a year 3640, a lot of words. Please, do not forget to repeat them every now and then.
as a result of a new situation
Now that I've got a car I can visit her more often.
You should help in the house more, now you're older.
She's enjoying the job now that she's got more responsibility.
Now I am in England for further studies, I would be very grateful to you if you will give me the opportunity to join your club.
at the present time, especially when compared to the past
Everything seems more expensive nowadays.
Who remembers those films nowadays?
Nowadays, I bake my own bread rather than buy it.
Well, nowadays I hardly ever watch television, as time is something that I really don't have enough of.
not anywhere
The room was very crowded - there was nowhere to sit.
These young people have nowhere else to go.
Nowhere does the article mention the names of the people involved.
Then she left the airport, but she had nowhere to go without money and identity, so she called her family asking for some help.
a long way from places where people live
His car broke down in the middle of nowhere.
You know I really don't want to get lost in the middle of nowhere.
If someone or something appears out of nowhere, it appears suddenly or unexpectedly.
The car came out of nowhere and we had to swerve to miss it.
I was lying all alone on the beach, then suddenly, out of nowhere, right behind me those strange creatures appeared.
not close in distance, time, amount or quality
The house was nowhere near the sea.
It's nowhere near time for us to leave yet.
I'm nowhere near finishing the book - I'm only half-way through it.
He's nowhere near as tall as his sister.
Although people are well aware of the current situation in Switzerland, they prefer looking at other countries and comparing us to them (we are nowhere near as fat as them).
If something gets you nowhere, it does not help you to succeed.
Bad manners will get you nowhere.
As this is a loophole in the law system, it's creating a conflict between house-owners and squatters and getting them nowhere.
relating to the energy that is released when the nucleus of an atom is divided
nuclear energy/power
a nuclear power plant
the nuclear industry
Anyway, the manager of that centre called me in order to inform me that I would be doing research on nuclear power and atoms.
relating to weapons that use nuclear power
a nuclear war/attack
nuclear disarmament
I think that the car isn't the greatest danger to human life today, because I believe the greatest danger is the nuclear bomb.
a person, thing, or situation that annoys you or causes problems for you
I've forgotten my umbrella - what a nuisance!
It's such a nuisance having to rewrite those letters.
I hate to be a nuisance, but could you help me?
Local residents claimed that the noise was causing a public nuisance.
It's comfortable, fast and it avoids the nuisance of having to take public transport in the rush hour.
a symbol or word used in a counting system or used to show the position or order of something
Think of a number smaller than 100.
Do you know what number their house is?
That's item number three on the agenda.
It's grey with blue numbers.
a telephone number
Do you know his phone number?
Do you have my mobile number?
I gave him my number.
Call me before, and tell me what you like to eat? Here's my new number 07782472751.
a group of numbers that represents something
Please write your credit card number on this form.
What's our flight number?
I go to market by bus number 376.
an amount
The number of people killed in road accidents fell last month.
A small number of children are educated at home.
A large number of people were contacted.
We are a well-mixed class with equal numbers of boys and girls, all about 20 years old.
several
There were a number of journalists present at the public meeting.
We've had quite a number of complaints about the programme.
There are a number of errors in your article.
to give something a number
Each volume was numbered and indexed.
The bus to Finspang is numbered 410 and there is at least one bus departuring for Finspang every hour.
If people or things number a particular amount, there are that many of them.
Our company's sales force numbered over 5,000.
They marched against Barovia with armies that numbered hundreds of thousands.
many
We have discussed these plans on numerous occasions.
Shops of this type, once rare, are now numerous.
The fact that my country produces numerous talented skaters is also a factor that helps me enjoy skating.
someone whose job is to care for ill and injured people
He worked as a nurse in a psychiatric hospital.
I want to be a nurse.
to care for a person or animal that is ill
We nursed the injured sparrow back to health.
Second, there are more and more old people who need to be looked after or nursed.
a place where young children and babies are taken care of while their parents are at work
Does Jake go to a nursery or a childminder?
I enjoy working with children because I was working in a nursery.
the dry fruit of some trees which grows in a hard shell, and can often be eaten
a Brazil/cashew nut
Sprinkle some roasted chopped nuts on top.
Finally I would like to inform you that one of our students has an allergy to all sorts of nuts.
the food that you eat and the way that it affects your health
Good nutrition is essential for growing children.
So, good exercise combined with the right nutrition (low fat, vegetables etc.) will alter our lives and help us feel and appear more relaxed.
relating to the food that you eat and the way it affects your health
These snacks have very little nutritional value.
Today, individuals have less time to prepare homemade food with high nutritional value.
Nutritious food contains substances that your body needs to stay healthy.
a nutritious meal
They seem to have discovered that salads and pasta can be as tasty and nutritious as red meat.
something that you say when you are describing something using as few words as possible
The answer, in a nutshell, is yes.
To put it in a nutshell, they all provide good food at reasonable prices.
a large tree found in northern countries, or the wood of this tree
an oak table/cupboard
There is a very old oak in the middle of the garden.
extremely fat
Currently, 15% of the population are classified as obese.
Less physical activity and a poor diet can lead to being overweight or even obese.
the state of being extremely fat
The government is concerned about childhood obesity.
Many researchers say that obesity and other adult diseases are getting common as we eat more western food.
to do what you are told to do by a person, rule, or instruction
The soldiers refused to obey (orders).
They must obey the rules of international law.
People failing to obey the law will be fined.
I have strict parents who tell me what to do and what not to do every day. If I don't obey them, I'll be punished for sure.
a thing that you can see or touch but that is usually not alive
a bright, shiny object
There were various objects on show.
I saw many things like dinosaur bones, mummies, various objects, etc.
in grammar, the person or thing that is affected by the action of the verb or the person or thing that comes after a preposition
In the sentence 'I like ice cream', 'ice cream' is the object of the verb 'like'.
the purpose of something
The object of the game is to score more points than the opposing team.
The object of the exercise is to complete the task within the time limit.
First of all, the object of the programme is to provide students with opportunities to develop useful skills through a 6-week work experience in Britain.
to feel or say that you do not like or do not approve of something or someone
He objects to the label 'magician' which he is often given.
Would anyone object if we started the meeting now?
No-one objected when the boss said it was time to go home.
I would like to object to what the reporter said in his conclusion.
when someone says that they do not like or approve of something or someone
Our main objection to the factory is that it will be noisy.
I have no objections if you want to stay an extra day.
As far as the film programme is concerned, I have no objections and feel fairly satisfied.
something that you are trying to achieve
Her main/prime objective now is simply to stay in power.
Can the sales force achieve/meet its financial objectives?
Do you think I will have the right conditions to do the diving course and achieve my objectives?
only influenced by facts and not by feelings
I try to be objective when I criticize someone's work.
Friends can be more objective concerning your faults and can give you a different point of view.
in a way that is only influenced by facts and not by feelings
This test assesses all candidates objectively.
The articles are objectively written and what is more they are comprehensible to the majority of people.
something that you do because it is your duty or because you feel you have to
If you have not signed a contract, you are under no obligation to pay them any money.
You have a legal obligation to ensure your child receives a proper education.
I think it would be preferable to do the trip in July, which is a holiday period and so I won't have any special obligations.
If something is obligatory, you must do it because of a rule or duty.
obligatory military service
I think this is a very good way of encouraging people to learn to like exercise without them having to do it because it is obligatory.
used to describe something that everyone does or has or something that is expected
a salesman with the obligatory mobile phone
Everybody should try a Danish lunch with the obligatory bread with herring and lots of beer.
to be forced to do something
Sellers are not legally obliged to accept the highest offer.
Besides, I don't want to wear any protective head-gear, which all the riders are obliged to wear.
to be helpful
The manager was only too happy to oblige.
I understand that you attach a great deal of value to the views of your visitors. I am happy to oblige.
relating to sex in a way that is unpleasant or shocking
an obscene gesture
obscene language
It was a woman with a deep, sexual voice, talking about my boyfriend with obscene innuendos about our relationship.
An obscene amount of something is shocking or morally wrong because it is too large.
obscene profits
Needless to say, the price was 'obscene', but I did not care.
good or quick at noticing things
He's very observant.
What's more, Len is the most patient and observant listener I have ever come across.
when someone watches someone or something carefully
The doctor wants to keep him under observation for a week.
She has very good powers of observation.
But actually it is boring when you're almost always under observation.
a remark about something that you have noticed
He made an interesting observation.
I'd like to make some observations regarding your CDs.
to watch someone or something carefully
The role of scientists is to observe and describe the world, not to try to control it.
He spent a year in the jungle, observing how deforestation is affecting local peoples.
Children learn by observing adults.
To support the idea of making a short video about daily life at our school I have spent some time discussing it with other students, observing and analysing an average day in our school.
to notice something
Jack observed a look of anxiety on his brother's face.
The guards failed to observe who delivered the package.
In all these films one observes that directors are taking a new interest in Native American culture.
Differences in speech styles may be observed between other social groups.
Two trends can be observed: one, "sociological", giving women a more and more important role in our country, and the other, "cultural", still keeping them to three "sacred things" - household, kids and the church.
to obey a law, rule, or religious custom
to observe the law
The old people in the village still observe the local traditions.
a person who watches what happens but has no active part in it
Political observers are expecting the election result to be close.
UN observers are monitoring the ceasefire.
Not even UN observers from other African countries understood this.
to think about someone or something all the time
to be obsessed with money/work
While she was walking her brain got more and more obsessed with the idea....... "I have to tell this story!"
something or someone that you think about all the time
an unhealthy obsession with death
her chocolate obsession
He's always wanted to find his natural mother but recently it's become an obsession.
Shopping is an obsession for all of us.
thinking too much about something, or doing something too much
obsessive behaviour
He's obsessive about his health.
Nevertheless attention must be paid to the fact that being influenced by other people's personality can lead to obsessive behaviour.
not used now
obsolete equipment
Will books become obsolete because of computers?
The museum's advertisement promises an exciting experience, so students were surprised to find so many obsolete machines of no interest.
something that makes it hard for you to go somewhere or to succeed at something
to overcome an obstacle
His refusal to talk is the main obstacle to peace.
Nowadays if you are a member of a football club, for example, you have to pay a great amount of money. This can be an obstacle for a lot of young people.
to get something
to obtain permission
First editions of these books are now almost impossible to obtain.
In the second experiment they obtained a very clear result.
Sugar is obtained by crushing and processing sugar cane.
Now, he has obtained a permit from other countries to plant sugar in their countries.
easy to understand or see
"How do you know she's not happy?" "It's obvious."
It's obvious (that) she doesn't like him.
There is no obvious solution.
They have a small child so for obvious reasons they need money.
I know you don't like her, but do you have to make it so obvious?
Am I just stating the obvious?
The answers to your questions are obvious.
in a way that is easy to understand or see
Obviously the school cannot function without teachers.
He was in tears and obviously very upset.
Obviously it's a special day for all the family, so we spend a lot of time - and also lots of money - on dresses, food and flowers.
an important event or ceremony
a special occasion
At the wedding he sang a song specially written for the occasion.
I have a suit but I only wear it on special occasions.
The coronation of a new king is, of course, a historic occasion.
Congratulations on the occasion of your wedding anniversary.
I enjoy wearing clothes for special occasions - for example a nice long dress.
a time when something happens
That was a previous/separate occasion.
We met on several occasions to discuss the issue.
I've heard him be rude to her on a number of occasions.
On one occasion our teacher left the class.
sometimes, but not often
I only drink alcohol on occasion.
As I am writing this I am beginning to conclude that there are very few disadvantages of banning private cars, only that for individuals it is far easier and more convenient to use a private car and not rely on our public transport, which can be on occasions very unreliable.
not happening or done often or regularly
I play the occasional game of football.
He has the occasional cigar after dinner.
Of course, sometimes, there are theatre performances but I would prefer a permanent theatre to these occasional performances.
sometimes but not often
I see him occasionally in town.
Occasionally I'll have a piece of chocolate, but it's quite rare.
I will need to use the computer to contact my friend on E-Mail and occasionally listen to a couple of CDs.
your job
You have to give your name, age and occupation on the application form.
In the first lesson we introduced ourselves and described our occupation, interests and so on, to each other.
something that you do in your free time
He has a few occupations, such as gardening and woodwork.
She made literature classes an engaging activity and fun and turned reading into an absorbing and fascinating occupation.
when an army moves into a place and takes control of it
a military occupation
During the German occupation in Greece she was alone in Athens with her two children, because her husband had died in Albania, fighting against the Italians.
to fill or use a place or period of time
His book collection occupies most of the room.
All the seats were occupied.
The babies seem to occupy all our time.
An intelligent solution to this is the bicycle, which can be parked almost everywhere and occupies little space.
to keep someone busy or interested
On long car journeys I occupy myself with solving maths puzzles.
The new toys kept the kids occupied for hours.
So in order to keep myself occupied for a while, I went to the restaurant, except it wasn't open.
to move into a place and take control of it
The troops eventually occupied most of the island.
It's a show called "Taxa" based on true stories. It takes you back to 1942, when Denmark was occupied by Germany.
to happen, often without being planned
An accident involving over ten vehicles has occurred in the east-bound lane.
If any of these symptoms occur while you are taking the medicine, consult your doctor immediately.
Furthermore, I think that most accidents that occur with cars are due to the irresponsibility of some drivers and I think strong measures should be taken in order to punish them.
something that happens or how often it happens
Street fights are an everyday occurrence in this area of the city.
The study compares the occurrence of heart disease in various countries.
When workers began to threaten a strike, about twenty days ago, people were instructed on how to tackle such an occurrence - you know, we are well organised and like to have emergency plans for any danger.
the sea
to swim in the ocean
It's an island in the middle of the ocean.
These mysterious creatures live at the bottom of the ocean.
It has an ocean view and when I wake up in the morning the sunshine comes in through the window, it's the best moment in the day.
a very small amount compared to the amount needed
My letter of protest was just a drop in the ocean.
Naturally it is a drop in the ocean, but we can hope that the others will imitate our behaviour.
used after the numbers one to twelve to mean exactly that hour when you tell the time
It was ten o'clock when we got home.
See you tomorrow at 7 o'clock.
the tenth month of the year, after September and before November
22(nd) October/October 22(nd)
We're leaving for Italy on October the ninth/the ninth of October.
Sara's birthday is some time in/during October.
It's been the wettest October for years.
The class is on 26th October.
strange or unusual
Her father was an odd man.
What an odd thing to say.
It struck me as odd that he hadn't called.
That's odd - I'm sure I put my keys in this drawer and yet they're not here.
It's a bit odd that no-one's seen him.
That struck me as odd, since it had never happened before.
used to talk about something that happens or exists sometimes but not often
She does the odd teaching job but nothing permanent.
You get the odd person who's rude to you but they're generally quite helpful.
Apart from the odd visit to other towns and villages, we used to spend the best part of our holiday on the beach.
in a strange or surprising way
Didn't you think she was behaving rather oddly at the party yesterday?
Oddly enough, she didn't mention anything about the fact that she was getting married.
Oddly enough, she never seems to be really angry and perhaps it is the reason why I like confiding in her.
the probability that a particular thing will or will not happen
If you drive a car all your life, the odds are that you'll have an accident at some point.
There are heavy odds against people succeeding in such a bad economic climate.
What are the odds on him being re-elected?
The odds are stacked against a woman succeeding in the business.
After all, on the battlefield for promotion, men still have a vital interest to set the odds against women in favour of their own opportunities.
If you do or achieve something against all the odds, you succeed although you were not likely to.
We won the game against all odds.
The stormy waters and heavy winds were a great challenge, and almost deemed it impossible for me to succeed, but against all odds I managed to defeat my fears.
a group of small objects of different types which are not valuable or important
I use this box to keep odds and ends in.
to not agree with someone or something
His remark was at odds with our report.
Young people are inexperienced as far as the world is concerned and thus they are frequently at odds with their family.
a smell, often one that is unpleasant
body odour
It was stale and had a decidedly offensive odour.
belonging or relating to someone or something
a friend of mine
the colour of her hair
part of the problem
employees of the company
The name of my friend is Maria.
used after words which show an amount
a kilo of apples
loads of food
hundreds of people
most of them
none of them
both of us
a third of all people
a drop of rain
She has a lot of flowers in her room.
containing
a bag of sweets
a bottle of beer
a book of short stories
sacks of rubbish
I like cups of tea, I like noodles, but I don't like beef.
used with numbers, ages and dates
an essay of 500 words
a boy of six
the 14th of February 2005
The class started on the 2nd of June at half past five.
used to say 'yes' and emphasize your answer
"Can you help me?" "Of course!"
Yes of course I can come.
used in expressions showing position
the top of his head
the back of your dress
on the corner of the street
the front of the queue
I've never been north of Edinburgh.
First you go past a big supermarket on the corner of my street.
showing someone or something
a map of the city centre
a photo of my boyfriend
Tony gave me a photo of Henry.
used when comparing related things
Best of all I liked the green one.
Worst of all was the food!
He's the best looking of the three brothers.
I think that of all his films it's my favourite.
The best of all was a necklace.
used to say 'no' and emphasize your answer
"Do you mind if I borrow your pen?" "Of course not."
"Pardon. You said your uncle's will? Would you mind explaining that, please?" "Of course not!"
used to show who or what does something
the works of Shakespeare
the arrival of the rainy season
the music of the flute
They often cover the music of "The Beatles" or "The Rolling Stones".
showing a reason or cause
He died of cancer.
But, three months later, after walking in the rain he died of pneumonia.
used to show that what you are saying is obvious or already known
Of course, the Olympics are not just about money.
Of course, I met many new people.
used after an adjective when judging someone's behaviour
It was very nice of you to think of us.
It was a bit mean of him to mention her weight.
Thank you so much for my present. How thoughtful of you.
It was most thoughtful of you to invite us and I warmly appreciate your hospitality.
about or relating to
Speaking of Elizabeth, here she is.
Let us consider the events of the last five months.
We know very little of her childhood.
Speaking of sightseeing, many thought that visiting other sights - like the Folk Museum - should not be compulsory.
If you do something of your own accord, you choose to do it and no one else forces you.
She left of her own accord.
She would go alone, but it was something that was chosen of her own accord.
not at work
I had six months off after my son was born.
I'm going to take/have some time off to work on my house.
She was off sick last week.
I will take a day off on Friday.
used with actions in which something is removed or removes itself from another thing
Take your jacket off.
One of my buttons has come off.
She's had all her hair cut off.
I left the lid off.
I took off my ring.
not operating or being used
Make sure the computers are all off before you go home.
I tried to contact my neighbour, but his phone was off and nobody was at home.
away from a place or position
I'm just off to the shops.
Keep the dog on the lead or he'll just run off.
If we can get off early tomorrow morning we'll avoid most of the traffic.
I'm off now - see you tomorrow.
She's off to Canada next week.
They got into the car and drove off.
If a price has a certain amount of money off, it costs that much less than the usual price.
You can get some money off if you pay cash.
There's 40% off this week on all winter coats.
There was $40 or $50 off most jackets in the shop.
He promised me 30% off the price, so I'm going to buy the TV and the CD player from him.
far in distance or time
You can see the village off in the distance.
My holidays seem a long way off.
The exams are so far off that I'm not even thinking about them yet.
Allow me to start by saying that one day, which may lie not so far off in the future, people will visit the buildings which were formerly known as "Educational Institutions" like we visit museums to gape at the sheer size of the Dinosaurs...
down or away from a place or position
All the leaves had dropped off the tree.
He fell off his bike.
I still remember the way your brother fell off the ladder that day.
used with actions in which something is removed or removes itself from another thing
I can't get the lid off this jar.
Has anyone taken a book off my desk?
Could you cut me a small piece off that white cheese?
Take your feet off the seat.
Next month, I'm going to change my bedroom. I'll take the photographs off the wall.
near to a building or place
It's an island off the east coast of Spain.
He lives just off the main road.
If someone such as a doctor or a soldier is off duty, they are not working.
What time are you off duty tomorrow?
Sometimes I come off duty at ten p.m.
If you say something off the record, you do not want the public to know about it.
Off the record, ministers are saying the president must resign.
Off the record, how come that your reporter can print such lies when knowing they are perhaps hurting certain people in this important matter?
If an area is off limits, you are not allowed to enter it.
Most of the palace is off limits to the public.
The only place that was off limits for us was on the other side of the mountain, because it was too dangerous.
in a place where few people go
I prefer to take my holiday somewhere off the beaten track.
Furthermore, in areas off the beaten track, there are not even police sometimes.
If food or drink is off, it is not now fresh and good to eat or drink.
This milk smells off.
Who knows if the food isn't off?
stopped or given up
The wedding's off - she's decided she's too young to settle down.
It's all off between Philippa and Mike.
The boat trip is off because of the weather.
On that day, she had written him a big long letter and told him that it was all off, for she didn't love him any longer.
a crime
Driving without a licence is an offence.
a serious/minor offence
a criminal offence
He committed several serious offences.
It's the third time that he's been convicted of a drug offence.
Finally, using a bike keeps you free of any parking problem or parking offence and your bike will wait for you all day long, because it won't be towed-away!
when something rude makes someone upset or angry
I really didn't mean to cause/give any offence - I was just stating my opinion.
Do you think he took offence at what I said about his hair?
If you don't mind, I'd rather go on my own - no offence, but I think it would be better.
Now, about that organisation of yours. What is it actually doing? No offence, I just wonder are you saving nature or just writing articles about it?
to make someone upset or angry
I think she was a bit offended that she hadn't been invited to the party.
He looked a offended when you called him middle-aged.
If the sight of a few dirty dishes offends you, then I think you've got problems!
I know that she was not offended but I will never forget my stupid question.
someone who has committed a crime
first-time offenders
sex offenders
young offenders
The ticket fare is very reasonable, and there are always police patrolling around, protecting the people from offenders.
likely to make people angry or upset
This programme contains language that some viewers might find offensive.
He told some really offensive sexist jokes.
Dear Sir/Madam, The review on the Westfield Music Festival was both offensive and incorrect.
to say that you are willing to do something
Paul has offered to help us move house.
"I'll do the cooking, " he offered.
Dear Robbie, Thank you for offering to help me paint my bedroom.
to ask someone if they would like something
They've offered me a job.
Can I offer you a drink?
I feel bad that I didn't offer them any food.
Someone should offer that old lady a seat.
He offered me a contract and asked me to go to his music studio to record a CD.
to give or provide something
to offer advice
We are now offering you the chance/opportunity to buy the complete set of DVDs at half price.
Did he offer any explanation for his strange behaviour?
Rome offers good nightlife so after visiting the museum, we'll be able to go to the disco.
to say that you will pay a particular amount of money
I offered him £500 for the car.
Police have offered a $1,000 reward for information.
My company will offer 20 percent more than the minimum wage that exists for the same type of work in Canada.
when you ask someone if they would like something
an offer of help
a job offer
to accept/refuse an offer
"If you like I can do some shopping for you." "That's a very kind offer."
Thank you very much for your offer.
a cheap price or special arrangement for something you are buying
This special offer ends on Friday.
Are these jeans still on offer?
We found a £12 offer to Leeds Castle including bus transfer and entrance ticket for the castle.
available
We were amazed at the range of products on offer.
You should find out about the services on offer.
The swimming pool is also on offer to tourists. Another advantage of the hotel is that it is not far from the centre.
an amount of money that you say you will pay for something
The highest offer anyone has made so far is £150.
a room or building where people work
I didn't leave the office until eight o'clock last night.
the director's office
office workers
office equipment
I go to the office on foot.
a room or building where you can get information, tickets, or a particular service
a ticket office
the tourist office
I suggest we meet at 4.50 p.m, in the ticket office.
an important job in an organization
Some people think he has been in office for too long.
She held the office of mayor for eight years.
The former Polish prime minister was a woman - Hanna Suchocka - and she was able to remain in office for 15 months, in the time when the life expectancy of governments in Poland is about half a year.
a police officer
a uniformed officer
They sent me an officer: Officer McDonald, from the anti-mafia department.
a person who has a position of authority in an organization
a customs/prison officer
I work as a customs officer and in this job I meet a lot of foreign people every day.
someone with an important job in a military organization
a naval officer
an army officer
He was an officer in the army.
approved by the government or someone in authority
the official language of Singapore
an official document
There is to be an official inquiry into the incident.
The queen will attend the official opening of the theatre in June.
I have worked as an official translator in the British Embassy in Seoul.
relating to the duties of someone in authority
an official visit
The two episodes in the book 'The colour of blood' that I've decided to write about are Cardinal Benn and Prime Minister meeting at the official residence, and the fatal mass in honour of the blessed martyrs.
known by the public
Their engagement is now official.
Inflation has fallen below 2%, and that's official.
It was now official, she was the most beautiful girl of the school.
An official explanation or statement is one that is given, but which may not be true.
The official reason for the delay is bad weather.
Well, this was the official reason to explain his stay, but the truth - which I had learned later - was that Martin was a broken man.
a person who has a position of responsibility in an organization
a UN official
a government/trade-union official
Neither Olivia nor her husband, Douglas, are Indian, but Douglas is a British official in India.
formally and in a way agreed to or arranged by people in positions of authority
The new hospital was officially opened yesterday.
The royal engagement was announced officially this morning.
If I could travel back to any place and time in history, I would choose the day when World War II was officially declared over.
slightly unpleasant or worrying so that you do not want to get involved in any way
He's slightly aggressive, which a lot of people find a bit off-putting when they first meet him.
Therefore, it's quite off-putting to stay in Hong Kong for higher education.
If one thing offsets another thing, it has the opposite effect and so creates a more balanced situation.
The costs have been offset by savings in other areas.
During the interview, she tried to offset the bad impression she was sure she had made.
the child of a person or animal
to produce offspring
Now, seven years into a relationship with a woman that eventually became my wife and mother of my offspring, I sit back and recall with selfish and secret pleasure the sheer number of different women I have been out with between these two absolute landmarks in my love life.
many times or regularly
I often shop there.
How often do you wash your hair?
I don't often drink spirits.
I don't see him very often.
It's not often that you meet someone who you're instantly attracted to.
I don't see my parents as often as I'd like to.
We often go shopping or to pubs.
If something often happens or is often true, it is normal for it to happen or it is usually true.
Brothers and sisters often argue.
Headaches are often caused by stress.
Christmas is often mild in Britain.
Very often, people link classical music to Austrian or German composers, such as Mozart or Handel, but rarely to England and geniuses such as Haydn and Purcell.
sometimes, but not often
He went into town every so often to buy supplies.
Elizabeth and others visited her every so often until one day she left them.
introduces an idea that you have just thought of, or something that you have just remembered
Oh, I've just thought of a problem.
Oh, and don't forget to lock the back door.
Oh yeah, someone phoned for you while you were out.
Oh, and don't forget to show up in old clothes, ok?
used to express different emotions, such as surprise, disappointment and pleasure, often as a reaction to something someone has said
"Jack can't come after all." "Oh dear, Emma will be sad to hear that."
"He's been married three times." "Oh, really? I didn't know that!"
"I'm afraid I can't come to the party." " Oh, that's a shame."
Is that for me? Oh, you're so kind!
"I'm sorry I forgot to ring you." "Oh, don't worry."
Oh, that's ok.
used to emphasize how surprised, angry, shocked, etc. you are
Oh my God! The car's been stolen.
Oh my god, your sister is getting married!
a thick liquid produced from plants that is used in cooking
olive/sunflower/vegetable oil
Hi Fatima, I think you can bring some potatoes, olive oil and lettuce.
a thick liquid that comes from under the Earth's surface that is used as a fuel and for making parts of machines move easily
an oil company
engine oil
He is working in a big oil company called Agip.
to work late into the night
I had to burn the midnight oil to get the essay finished.
My examinations were nearing and I was always burning the midnight oil.
used when agreeing to do something or when allowing someone to do something
"Could you pick me up from the station?" "OK, what time?"
"I'll pay you back tomorrow." "Okay, no problem."
OK. See you for dinner!
used to check that someone understands something or that they agree to something
So I'll get the food and you can get the drink, OK?
I'll see you at six-thirty, okay?
Don't forget to wear an old shirt and jeans, okay?
used as a way of showing that you are going to take action, start speaking or start something new
OK then, if you're ready we'll start.
Okay, let's go.
not ill, damaged, upset, etc.
Are you OK? You look a bit pale.
How's Paola? Is she okay after her fall yesterday?
"Is everything OK with you?" "Yes, fine."
I'll just check that the car's okay - that was a bit of a bang!
Hi, Ramesh What are you doing? Are you OK?
good or good enough
Is your food OK?
"Did you have a good meal last night?" "It was okay, though I've had better."
Her voice is OK, but it's nothing special.
I hope the new trousers you bought are OK.
allowed or acceptable
Is it OK if I bring a friend to the party?
Is it okay to smoke in here?
If it's okay by/with you, I'll leave the shopping till tomorrow.
Dear Ally, It's okay that you couldn't come.
in a satisfactory way
Everything was going OK until the printer stopped working.
Did you sleep okay?
I just phoned to make sure that you got there okay.
Finally the day finished OK.
having lived or existed for many years
an old man
an old house
We're all getting older.
I was shocked by how old he looked.
I'm too old to be out clubbing every night.
That's an old joke - I've heard it about a thousand times.
Wroctaw is an old town.
used to describe or ask about someone's age
How old is your father?
Rosie's six years old now.
He's a couple of years older than me.
She is 23 years old.
from a period in the past
I saw my old English teacher last time I went home.
He's bought me a smart new camera to replace my old one.
She showed me her old school.
I saw an old boyfriend of mine.
My old one is a Nokia.
someone who you have known and liked for a long time
I met an old friend who I was at college with.
Do you remember my old friend Jack?
a period in the past
In the old days large families were much more common.
something or someone you have seen or heard many times before
Every day I see the same old faces.
Politicians repeat the same old arguments time and time again.
I think that it is the same old story with media all over the world that they tend to present the news in an exaggerated manner.
not modern
old-fashioned clothes/ideas/furniture
She's a bit old-fashioned in her outlook.
But I don't like clothes with stripes, because I think that's a little old-fashioned.
a small green or black fruit with a bitter taste that is eaten or used to produce oil
olive oil
olive trees
In the countryside there are some hills, some sunflowers, olive trees and many medieval towns on the hills to visit!
a food made with eggs that have been mixed and fried, often with other foods added
a cheese/mushroom omelette
I want to make many cakes and omelettes!
when something has not been included that should have been
Measures to control child employment are a glaring omission from this legislation.
There are some serious errors and omissions in the book.
Finally, I think it would be an omission if I didn't mention the children that live in poverty and die from starvation and diseases every day.
to not include something
She was omitted from the list of contributors to the report.
The Prince's tour conveniently omitted the most deprived areas of the city.
The advertisement had omitted some important facts about the school, like the rare possibility of taking the exam, the problems with transport, the lack of advertised social activities.
to not do something
She omitted to mention where she was going.
Thus, no-one else could fill the gap if they omit to teach their children basic principles of living in society.
on or onto a surface
Ouch, you're standing on my foot!
I dropped my pen on the floor.
Look at all the books on your desk!
We put all of our medicine on a high shelf.
Your suitcase is on top of the wardrobe.
I can read the book, listen to music, watch TV or just sit on my sofa and drink a hot cup of tea.
used to show the day or date when something happens
Many shops don't open on Sundays.
What are you doing on Friday?
My birthday's on the 30th of May.
I go to college on Monday and Wednesday.
covering, touching, attached to or hanging from something
You've got blood on your shirt.
Which finger do you wear your ring on?
We could hang this picture on the wall next to the door.
Dogs should be kept on their leads at all times.
I like my bedroom, because there are a lot of windows, two armchairs, a lamp next to the bed, a table under the window, and some pictures on the wall.
used to refer to a place when giving directions
Our house is the first on the left after the post office.
Take the first turning on the right.
My house is the first one on the left.
used for showing some methods of travelling
I love travelling on trains.
She'll be arriving on the five-thirty bus.
We went to France on the ferry.
I will travel on a train and then I will take a taxi to your home.
in a particular place
the diagram on page 22
They lived on a farm.
I live on a farm in the Emmental.
used to show the way in which something is recorded or broadcast
What's on television tonight?
When's the film coming out on DVD?
At the party, we watched films on television.
used to show what money or time is used for
She refuses to spend more than £20 on a pair of shoes.
I've wasted too much time on this already.
I love it and I spend all my time on it.
walking
Are you going by bicycle or on foot?
It isn't far away from the main building - it's about 15 minutes on foot.
available at a reduced price
I love that dress but I'm waiting until it's on sale before I buy it.
I bought a nice t-shirt and a pair of shorts. I bought them because they're comfortable and cheap: they were on sale. I spent 15€.
available to buy in a shop, on the Internet, etc.
The video and book are now on sale.
I went window shopping with my friends yesterday and I saw this beautiful skirt on sale.
about
a book on plants
Her thesis is on Italian women's literature.
The other one is a book on dogs and cats.
next to or along the side of a place or area
Cambridge is on the River Cam.
Our house was on Sturton Street.
Strasbourg is on the border of France and Germany.
Dan, We are going to the cinema that is on Arocena street.
using something
I do all my household accounts on computer.
Chris is on drums and Mike's on bass guitar.
I'm on the phone.
I was in the pizza shop to order some food for my family and I was on the phone.
on a boat, train, aircraft, etc.
There were 230 people on board the plane.
I also love travelling by plane because you can have a snack on board.
If something is on fire, it is burning when it should not be.
If your home was on fire and you could save only one thing, what would it be?
A lot of buildings were on fire.
intentionally
I didn't do it on purpose, it was an accident.
I didn't do it on purpose; it was dark and I just walked into it.
not early or late
I got to school on time.
So, I will not be on time for my English class tomorrow.
If something is on display, it is there for people to look at.
Many old aircraft are on display at the museum at the moment.
There were some new musical instruments on display.
generally
We've had a few problems, but on the whole we're very happy.
On the whole I don't like watching television.
alone
I like living on my own.
On Wednesday morning I went on my own to see theVatican.
without any help
I did my buttons up all on my own, Mummy.
Maybe I can do the missing work on my own.
used to show what happens as a result of touching or hitting against something
You'll cut yourself on that knife if you're not careful.
I hit my head on the shelf as I was standing up.
Suddenly I hit my head on the bed as the man was talking.
used to show something which is used as food or fuel
What do frogs live on?
Does this radio run on batteries?
All new cars run on unleaded fuel which is a benefit to the environment.
because of something
He doesn't eat any dairy products on account of the diet he is following.
On account of its location, it is always busy.
If you do something on behalf of someone, you do it for them or instead of them.
On behalf of the entire company, I would like to thank you for all your work.
Unfortunately, George cannot be with us today so I am pleased to accept this award on his behalf.
I am writing on behalf of our college English club members to welcome you to our city.
used to give your opinion after you have considered all the facts about something
On balance, I'd prefer to come straight home.
On balance, no matter how important or useful computers may be, they will never replace the pleasure of re-reading familiar pages of your favourite books.
only if
I'll come with you on condition that we're back before midnight.
I would like to do this on condition that you will not mention my name on the website.
If someone such as a doctor or a soldier is on duty, they are working.
What time are you on duty tomorrow?
I was on duty in front of the major's house with another soldier.
in addition to something else that is bad
On top of all this bad luck, he lost his mobile phone.
And then, on top of everything else, her car was stolen!
On top of everything, the weather was bad and the sea was so cold that I couldn't swim.
used when you are comparing two different ideas or opinions
On the one hand, computer games develop many skills, but on the other, they mean kids don't get enough exercise.
On the one hand, I know from my experience that it's much easier in life if you know more about everything, but on the other hand, I'd say that if someone had given me a chance (when I was kid) to study what I enjoyed, probably I'd have more possibility to develop my skills.
available
We were amazed at the range of products on offer.
You should find out about the services on offer.
The swimming pool is also on offer to tourists. Another advantage of the hotel is that it is not far from the centre.
to be a member of a group or organization
She's on the playgroup committee.
How many people are on your staff?
She's a researcher on a women's magazine.
As a student on the committee which organises this, I have to say that there have been some problems with the experience, and also that some changes should be made in order to make a better programme.
having something as a reason
Marks are awarded on the basis of progress and performance.
On the basis of the points mentioned above, it is a foregone conclusion that young people do not face any severe problems.
to be quick to understand and react to things
She's over ninety, but she's still on the ball.
When you're at Sants station, you'll need to be on the ball to find the tube.
on television or radio
The radio station is on air from 6.00 a.m.
It is on air at 8.30 p.m. every Thursday and Saturday.
because of a particular reason
You cannot discriminate on the grounds of religion.
I refused on the grounds that it was too risky.
I am convinced that it is better than Southside College on the grounds that a great mass of students are satisfied.
If a plan or activity is on hold, it will not be done until a later time.
The project is on hold until we get more money.
What's more, it might, intentionally or not, raise awareness on issues that might have been put on hold by authorities, such as the legalization of soft drugs.
waiting to speak to someone on the telephone
His secretary put me on hold.
The day after, I called your office and after being put on hold, the person answering the phone was unwilling to come up with a proper reply.
likely to happen soon
Economic recovery is on the horizon.
Often this is justified as a result of society being collectively afraid that a shortage of fuel is on the horizon.
If something is on the increase, it is happening more often.
Violent crime is on the increase.
The number of motorists is on the increase everywhere in the world.
If something is on loan, someone is borrowing it.
Both paintings are on loan from the city museum.
For example, you can always take out on loan any video you like from our centre.
If a film or television programme is made on location, it is made at a place suitable to the story.
The movie was shot on location in Kenya.
We can't help mentioning the nice shots on location.
driving or travelling, usually over a long distance
We'd been on the road for 48 hours.
I have experienced sitting behind a steering wheel on the road for many years.
making progress and likely to succeed
A fighter from Edinburgh is on track to become world heavyweight boxing champion.
We've got a lot of work to do but we're on the right track.
The sales teams are well on track and bringing in new customers every day.
being shown to the public
Her designs are currently on show at the Museum of Modern Art.
One of the facilities that really makes a difference is the Art Gallery, with its great exhibition on show, as well as the Art Library.
inside a factory, office building, etc.
There are two restaurants on site.
They provide on-site childcare facilities for employees.
A small period of training on site is required a few days before the beginning of the job itself and how many interesting people you will meet!
to be going to happen or do something very soon
The company is on the verge of financial disaster.
I was on the verge of depression, when I decided to take the control of my own life.
to have something with you
Do you have your driving licence on you?
not for any reason or in any situation
On no account must these records be changed.
Mary did not want Martin to leave on any account, let alone move to a foreign country.
to be in a situation where something bad is going to happen very soon
The two countries are on the brink of war.
By the end of the 21st century, Earth was on the brink of destruction. The atmosphere was polluted, the seas were poisoned, the animals were just a distant memory.
to be likely to happen
Do you think marriage is on the cards?
to be extremely happy and excited
After I heard I'd got the job, I was on cloud nine!
But now, after the promise in which both said "yes", she was on cloud nine.
at that exact time
We have to leave at 7.30 on the dot.
He gave him an address and told him to be there at six on the dot.
sometimes, but not often
I only drink alcohol on occasion.
As I am writing this I am beginning to conclude that there are very few disadvantages of banning private cars, only that for individuals it is far easier and more convenient to use a private car and not rely on our public transport, which can be on occasions very unreliable.
to be going to happen or to do something very soon
a company on the verge of financial disaster
I was on the verge of depression, when I decided to take control of my own life.
If two people are on the same wavelength, they have the same way of thinking and it is easy for them to understand each other.
We chatted occasionally, but I never really felt we were on the same wavelength.
We were on the same wavelength and we therefore started our own research.
If someone's job, reputation, life, etc. is on the line, they may lose it.
If we don't win the contract, all our jobs are on the line.
The person who hopes to achieve success shouldn't be afraid of taking risks and sometimes putting his or her career on the line for the sake of gaining much bigger benefits.
to be nervous or worried
Sorry for shouting - I'm a bit on edge today.
I was consequently on edge all the time and was not able to have fun as much as the others did.
used when you are describing how a situation seems on the surface
On the face of it, it seems like a bargain, but I bet there are hidden costs.
On the face of it, both sides have valid arguments, and it's a difficult balancing act to manage.
If someone is in form or on form, they are feeling or performing well, and if they are off form they are not feeling or performing well.
Harry was on good form last night.
to be ready to deal with something difficult that might happen
Companies were warned to be on their guard for suspicious packages.
However, we should be on guard, so as not to let the things escape our control.
near to someone or something, and ready to help or be used when necessary
Extra supplies will be on hand, should they be needed.
From their point of view, they can always have you on hand whenever they need help, which is the most important part in their formative years.
suddenly and without thinking first
I tend to act on impulse.
I'm seeing Milly as a capricious girl who, like most teenagers, enjoys buying, although I think that she buys on impulse.
done or experienced by someone
This is a major sacrifice on the part of the unions.
The accident was caused by carelessness on the instructor's part.
It seems that international sports competitions have always tended to attract a great amount of interest on the part of the media and have consistently been popular with sports fans the world over.
If you refuse to do something on principle, you refuse to do it because you think it is morally wrong.
She doesn't wear fur on principle.
They granted themselves a little celebration: it was time to keep the promise made four years before; so they bought some bottles of wine and got drunk (they who, on principle, never drank alcohol).
in addition to your main job
She does a bit of bar work on the side.
At work, they gave her the worst jobs to do. She knew she didn't have much choice but she still tried to find something else on the side.
immediately
I accepted the job on the spot.
And when it was Meredith's turn to tell her about her impending wedding, she felt she was going to have a heart attack on the spot.
If you do something on the spur of the moment, you do it suddenly, without planning it.
On the spur of the moment we decided to go to London for the day.
In reality, many people buy things on the spur of the moment only to discover later that they, in fact, do not meet their expectations.
at the start of a new and important time or development
We're on the threshold of a new era in European relations.
On the threshold of the third millennium, there is no stopping progress.
If you have something on, you are wearing it.
She's got a black coat on.
Why don't you put your new dress on?
And I want you to put on some baggy clothes, so that you'll feel comfortable while working.
into a bus, train, plane, etc. or onto a horse
The train suddenly started moving as I was stepping on.
Her horse began to move as soon as she was on.
happening or planned
I'm busy tomorrow, but I've got nothing on the day after.
I've got a lot on at the moment.
Do you know what's on at the cinema?
Is the party still on for tomorrow?
in a way which results in forward movement
You cycle on and I'll meet you there.
Move on, please, and let the ambulance through.
I had just got on the subway when it stopped and didn't move on.
working or being used
The heating has been on all day.
For example, the staff shouldn't leave the lights on and the heating's on when they don't need to use it.
performing
Hurry up with the make-up - I'm on in ten minutes.
The audience cheered as the band came on.
My faith in youth started to fade but then a boy named Josh came on.
one single time
I went sailing once, but I didn't like it.
I go swimming once a week.
We have lunch together once a month.
Once a year we all get together.
I can write to him once a week.
in the past, but not now
This house once belonged to my grandfather.
Computers are much cheaper nowadays than they once were.
I once went to England and I love the style of the clothes and how people dress there!
again
Once again I'm left with all the washing-up!
Once again I'm sorry.
one more time
I'd like to visit the colleges once more before we leave.
On Friday I will see him once more.
immediately
I knew at once that I'd like it here.
She called for an ambulance which came at once.
used at the beginning of a story to mean a long time ago
Once upon a time there was a beautiful princess.
Once upon a time there was a very poor family.
used to mean that something is happening that does not usually happen
For once, the bus came on time.
We would take lots of pictures, and play our own instruments, and if we get lucky enough, we would even touch the very stones and for once be embraced by magic itself.
sometimes but not often
We do go to the beach once in a while.
She did not say very much except for "oh" and "yes, yes" every once in a while.
at the same time
They all started talking at once.
The study centre is really small and all the students talk at once.
suddenly
All at once he stood up and walked out of the room.
All at once, everything started to work again.
completely and finally
Let's get to the bottom of this matter once and for all!
Now I was sure that my wife had left me once and for all.
as soon as
Once I've found somewhere to live I'll send you my address.
Remember that you won't be able to cancel the contract once you've signed.
I'll write back soon once I know exactly when I can visit you.
the number 1
You've got three bags and I've only got one.
one hundred and ninety-one people
Four parcels came this morning, but only one was for Mark.
Paint one side, leave it to dry, and then paint the other.
She has got three daughters and one son.
used to refer to a particular person or thing in a group that has already been talked about
I've got a few books on Chinese food. You can borrow one if you like.
Which one would you like?
Would you make a copy for everybody in the office and a few extra ones for the visitors.
"Which cake would you like?" "The one at the front."
There were lots of people standing watching, and not one of them offered to help.
The best one was a colourful T-shirt.
each other
How can they reach an agreement if they won't talk to one another?
We know one another from Poland.
separately, one after the other
One by one the old buildings in the city have been demolished and replaced with modern tower blocks.
They entered the room one by one.
So, he decides to investigate his death and he meets Harry's friends, one by one, to find out how he died, but they tell him different stories.
separately
Eat them one at a time.
The story was a horrible one but it had a harmless ending. The mad man kills one at a time, but in the end, the producer of the film says: "Cut, we'll take everything once again."
many, in a series, especially with very little time between them
They had four children one after another.
She ate the chocolates one after the other until the box was finished.
Little parties organised one after another by the representatives of different countries gave me an opportunity to try the French, Spanish or Japanese specialties.
any person in general
One ought to respect one's parents.
One can learn the beauty of the Greek language by simply reading the headings and will soon find that "The Step" is the best newspaper of all.
combined into a single thing
It's a vacation and art course all in one.
The internet is like combining a television, a telephone and an airplane all in one.
used to refer to a particular person or thing in a group
One drawback is the cost of housing in the area.
One of our daughters has just got married.
Our organization is just one of many charities that are providing famine relief in the region.
One of my presents was a dog!
used to talk about something that happened in the past
One day, I came home to find my windows smashed.
One day, I was reading an interesting book when someone called me.
at some time in the future
I'd like to go to Berlin again one day.
I hope one day I can become like that.
a few
I'd like to make one or two suggestions.
I need more T shirts, new skate shoes and perhaps one or two pullovers.
used to refer to a time in the future which is not yet decided
Why don't we meet for lunch one day next week?
I'd like to go skiing one Christmas.
I would be very glad if Enrico could stay with you one summer.
used to refer to a particular occasion while avoiding stating the exact moment
I met him one day in the park.
One night we stayed up talking till dawn.
He was attacked as he was walking home from work late one afternoon.
One afternoon, my mum called me asking what I was doing.
a single thing
Do you think five of us will manage to squeeze into the one car?
There's too much data to fit onto just one disk.
I think we should paint the bedroom all one colour.
I would recommend just the one hotel: Riverside Hotel, which offers great value.
used when saying there is no other person or thing
He's the one person you can rely on in an emergency.
This may be your one and only opportunity to meet her.
My final guest on tonight's show needs no introduction. Please welcome the one and only Michael Jordan!
Often it's the one and only possibility for young children to see wild animals or unknown animals from the other side of the world in real life.
in some way that is not stated
One way or another these bills have to be paid.
Everyone at the party was related in one way or another.
All of them made a big difference to our personal life and have affected it one way or another.
in any way that is possible
We have to make a decision one way or the other about what needs to be done.
Our transportation system nowadays is also very well organised and there is a wide range of buses, subways, etc. with which you can reach your destination one way or the other.
used to describe someone or something that is completely different from other people or things
My Dad was one of a kind - funny, kind and generous.
Pele is indeed one of a kind and can be considered a model for youngsters.
the reflexive form of the pronoun 'one' when it refers to the person speaking or people in general
How else should one protect oneself and one's family?
One must ask oneself: "Why is this happening?"
still happening
an ongoing investigation/process/project
No agreement has yet been reached and the negotiations are still ongoing.
To sum up, we are extremely positive about the club's future and its ongoing success.
a round vegetable with layers that has a strong taste and smell
I always cry when I'm chopping onions.
Fry the onion and garlic for about two minutes.
This is cooked cabbage with beef, wild mushrooms and onion.
describes products, services or information that can be bought or used on the Internet
online banking/shopping
an online newspaper/magazine/dictionary
I like it very much, because I can play online games now.
bought, used, etc. using the Internet
I ordered them online.
Why don't you go online and see what you can find?
When we went back home, I went online and checked my e-mails.
not more than a particular size or amount
She's only 13.
These shoes only cost £20.
He only passed one of his exams.
It's only four o'clock and it's already getting dark.
This is only ten minutes by car.
not anyone or anything else
Only Sue and Mark came to the meeting.
This club is for members only.
Only food bought at the café may be eaten here.
Only Marco, Anna, Sue and Nick came.
not in any other place
At present these televisions are only available in Japan.
These birds are only found in New Zealand.
I think animals, just as human beings, can only live in their natural habitat.
used to mean that something happened very recently
I only arrived half an hour ago.
They only put the roof on last week.
People were leaving and I'd only just arrived.
We'd only just set off when the car broke down.
I am really sorry I didn't write back earlier but I have only just got back from holiday.
used to say that something is not important, or that you did not mean to upset someone
Don't worry - it's only a scratch.
I was only joking.
I was only trying to help.
It was only a dream!
used when you want to say how doing something simple would make it possible to avoid something unpleasant
If only she'd listen to what he's saying, I'm sure they could work it out.
If only I had been more careful.
used to emphasize what you are hoping or wishing for
I only hope you know what you're doing.
I only wish that they would keep in touch more regularly.
I only hope I can have the chance to see her too.
used to say that more than one thing is true
Not only did he turn up late, he also forgot his books.
If this project fails it will affect not only our department, but also the whole organization.
Not only did she introduce me to her friends but she also introduced me to her brother.
to not be perfect
Of course Tom makes mistakes - he's only human.
In theory, it is easy to say "We should learn from the mistakes of the past" but is it easy to do so in practice? Many people would say "No" to this question, as we are only human.
used to say that there are limits to something
There's only so much help you can give someone.
The effects of a longer life span have many side effects such as an increase in the world's population and, since there is only so much food, many more people are starving to death.
used to mean that there are not any others
This is our only chance.
I was the only person on the train.
Is this really the only way to do it?
The only thing that matters is that the baby is healthy.
It was the only thing I could do under the circumstances.
Rita was the only person to complain.
I am the only French student in my class.
used to introduce a statement which explains why something you have just said cannot happen or is not completely true
I'd invite Frances to the party, only I don't want her husband to come.
I'd phone him myself, only I've got to go out.
This fabric is similar to wool, only cheaper.
He was always there for me when I needed him, only I needed him less and less.
used to show movement into or on a particular place
I slipped as I stepped onto the platform.
The crates were loaded onto trucks.
We couldn't talk so much, because the music was very loud till a group of singers came onto the dance floor and did a great show.
used to show that you are starting to talk about a different subject
How did we get onto this subject?
Let's move onto another topic!
beginning at a time and continuing after it
From June onwards, they began to meet regularly.
A growth to about 10% is expected around 2030 and an immense growth from 2030 onwards (from 10% to 27%).
available for business or serving customers
The supermarket is open till 10.00 p.m.
Our phonelines are open until 9 pm.
They are open all day and all night.
not closed or fastened
an open door/window
An open suitcase lay on her bed.
You left the packet open.
Someone had left the window wide open.
The door was open!
An open area of land has no buildings on it or near it.
large open spaces
From the garden there was a marvellous view over open countryside.
I need to be outside in open spaces.
to wait until you know all the facts before you form an opinion about something or judge someone
We're keeping an open mind about the causes of the fire.
To listen, to communicate, and to have an open mind are a way of life nowadays.
without a roof or cover
an open courtyard
You can hardly find anything more lovely than driving through the Scottish landscape in an open car.
willing to consider a discussion/suggestions, etc.
This is only a proposal. I'm open to suggestions.
He seems open to ideas like this, and I am sure he will not cancel at the last minute!
An open person is honest and does not hide their feelings.
He's quite open about his weaknesses.
I wish you'd be more open with me, and tell me what you're feeling.
She has an honest, open face.
I was grateful to my flatmate who told me I should be open about myself.
not secret
There has been open hostility between them ever since they had that argument last summer.
The prime minister has promised an open debate on the issue.
The council has refused to have an open discussion with the residents.
likely to be abused/criticized, etc.
The system is wide open to abuse.
The development is also open to abuse as counterfeit products could be produced in certain markets.
to watch carefully for someone or something
Keep your eyes open for anything unusual.
It has helped us identify and successfully combat many a nutritional hazard, keeping our eyes open to immoderate consumption of some substances and its effects.
to move something to a position that is not closed, or to make something change to a position that is not closed
to open a door/window
The gate won't open.
You can open your eyes now.
I can't open my cupboard without my key.
to remove or separate part of a container or parcel so that you can see or use what it contains
Shall I open another bottle of wine?
I haven't even opened the letter yet.
She can't wait to open all her presents.
He opened the box and a kitten jumped out.
First I opened my presents.
If a shop or office opens at a particular time of day, it starts to do business at that time.
The café opens at ten o'clock.
What time does the bank open?
It is open every day of the week except Mondays; it opens at 9:00am and closes at 10.00pm.
to make a computer document or program ready to be read or used
First, open the file called 'statistics'.
If a business or activity opens, it starts officially for the first time, and if you open it, you make it start officially for the first time.
That restaurant's new - it only opened last month.
The Olympic Games open tomorrow.
The new hospital will be officially opened by the mayor on Tuesday.
Well, I reckon that you can take photographs of the old castle and also the Classic Museum, which was opened by Queen Victoria 100 years ago.
to tell someone your secret thoughts and feelings
That night, she opened her heart to me and I think that's when I fell in love with her.
It is during this excessively dramatic conversation that George opening up his heart, tells her about his interpretation of her unhappiness with Cecil.
a ceremony at the beginning of an event or activity
The official opening of the new school will take place next month.
The festival starts with a huge opening parade.
the beginning of something
The opening of the novel is amazing.
a hole or space that something or someone can pass through
The children crawled through an opening in the fence.
The water in the reservoir is allowed to flow through an opening in the dam.
happening at the beginning of an event or activity
her opening remarks
the opening night
Also we could offer free drinks from our new products on the opening night, so we could get their first impressions.
without hiding any of your thoughts or feelings
They were openly dismissive of my suggestions.
He talks quite openly about his feelings.
We discussed our reservations about the contract quite openly.
I do hope that you are willing to cooperate, though I cannot say it openly.
willing to consider ideas and opinions that are new or different to your own
Luckily, both my parents were very open-minded.
He is also open-minded and very reliable.
when someone is honest about their thoughts and feelings
I appreciated his openness.
Firstly, I have found honesty and openness significantly important.
a musical play in which most of the words are sung
'Carmen' is my favourite opera.
I've never been a huge fan of opera.
He goes to the opera whenever he can.
an opera singer
I like classical music and opera.
to treat an illness or injury by cutting someone's body and removing or repairing part of it
Did they have to operate on him?
One day he decided to give part of his money to his son, whose wife was sick and had to be operated on immediately.
If a machine operates, it does what it is designed to do, and if you operate it, you make it do what it is designed to do.
You have to be trained to operate the machinery.
These new sewing machines are easy to operate.
How do you operate the remote control unit?
Lots of things are operated by computers now like airplanes, elevators, ticket machines, and so on.
If an organization or business operates, it is working, and if you operate it, you manage it and make it work.
Our company is operating under very difficult conditions at present.
Now we can get to Lampton by a coach service which is operated by ABC Coaches.
when a doctor cuts someone's body to remove or repair part of it
a major/minor operation
He's got to have an operation on his shoulder.
We will know in a couple of days if the operation to restore her sight was successful.
I'm sorry that I can't attend the class tomorrow because my father is having an operation tomorrow.
an activity which is planned to achieve something
a military/peacekeeping operation
Following the earthquake, a large-scale rescue operation was launched.
The operation to fly in supplies will begin as soon as possible.
an organization or business
a large commercial operation
If I cannot receive any satisfactory reply this month, I will write to the newspaper to expose your operation.
the fact of operating or being active
There are several reactors of the type in operation at the moment.
We expect the new scheme for assessing claims to come into operation early next year.
We see computers in operation at work as well as in almost every home.
someone whose job is to use and control a machine or vehicle
a computer operator
Last year I was working in a printing company as a Macintosh operator.
a company that does a particular type of business
a tour operator
If once more we are not satisfied, tour operators organize several types of safari holidays wherever we like.
a thought or belief about something or someone
What's your opinion about/on the matter?
People tend to have strong opinions on capital punishment.
He didn't express/give an opinion on the matter.
Who, in your opinion, is the best football player in the world today?
Her opinion of Adam changed after he'd been so helpful at the wedding.
My doctor has referred me to a specialist for a second opinion on the results of my blood test.
I really enjoy shopping for clothes especially when I go shopping with my brother, because I sometimes ask him for his opinion.
the thoughts or beliefs that a group of people have
Eventually, the government will have to take notice of public opinion.
There is a diverse range of opinion on the issue.
There was a difference of opinion as to the desirability of the project.
Opinion is divided as to whether the treatment actually works.
Both performances were excellent, it's simply a matter of opinion as to whose was better.
I would like to add that when it comes to public opinion there is a great variety of different points of view - that is why this article, which asserts that "performers were second-rate'' seems to be unfair.
to think that someone or something is good/bad
He has a low opinion of doctors.
He had a very high opinion of this particular course.
used to give your opinion about something, often when you are sure you are right
In my humble opinion, that's the wrong decision.
In my humble opinion, there's no such thing as a uniform celebrity, good, bad or otherwise.
someone who you compete against in a game or competition
In the second game, her opponent hurt her leg and had to retire.
Carmelita was her opponent in the volleyball final.
someone who disagrees with an action or belief and tries to change it
a political opponent
Leading opponents of the proposed cuts in defence spending will meet later today.
First of all let me look at the arguments used to support cycling and then at those of its opponents, who prefer travelling by car.
a situation in which it is possible for you to do something, or a possibility of doing something
Everyone will have an opportunity to comment.
The exhibition is a unique opportunity to see her later work.
An ankle injury meant she missed the opportunity to take part in the race.
He goes fishing at every opportunity.
Please contact us at the earliest opportunity.
It's a good opportunity to spend time with your friends.
the chance to get a job
employment/job opportunities
opportunities for young graduates
There are far more opportunities now for school leavers than there were fifty years ago.
And many people don't have any other job opportunities so they would be stuck with these bad jobs.
to use an occasion to do or say something
I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all of you.
Most of the comments are not right at all. I would like to take this opportunity to correct them.
to disagree with a plan or activity and to try to change or stop it
They both opposed the plan.
Most of the local residents opposed the closing of their hospital.
The proposed new examination system has been vigorously opposed by teachers.
Some of them were defending the idea that the car is the most lethal object that anybody can have, and others who opposed that idea said that the car is and will always be the best invention made by humanity.
to disagree with a plan or activity
We're not opposed to tax increases.
As you can see, Greendale Park is a very precious place for the majority of the residents, and they are opposed to the council's plan.
used to say that two things are very different
I'm talking about English football, as opposed to European football.
Love is accepting people as they are, being tolerant and giving freedom, as opposed to possessive love, which is what is often - if not always - understood by love.
in a position facing someone or something but on the other side
We're in the building opposite the library.
They sat opposite each other.
Put a tick opposite the answer that you think is correct.
It's near the park and opposite the bank, so it isn't far.
in a position facing something or someone but on the other side
My brother and I live on opposite sides of London.
The map on the opposite page shows the main lakes in the area.
They sat at opposite ends of the table, refusing to talk.
On the opposite side, there is a dark brown wardrobe which is made of wood.
completely different
All the traffic was going in the opposite direction.
Police attempts to calm the violence had the opposite effect.
The uncle had warned her so that she wouldn't interfere with what happened at the inn, but it had the opposite effect on Mary.
people who are the other sex from you
He would never dare to speak to a member of the opposite sex.
This is not only about trying to impress (preferably) a person of the opposite sex, but fashion also gives you a great chance to express yourself.
something or someone that is completely different from another person or thing
The opposite of 'fast' is 'slow'.
My father is a very calm person, but my mother is just the opposite.
She's turned out to be the exact opposite of what everyone expected.
Physically, she's the opposite of me.
in a position facing someone or something but on the other side
She asked the man sitting opposite whether he'd mind if she opened the window.
The people who live opposite are always making a lot of noise.
I was on the pavement next to my house and I was calling to my friend, when suddenly I saw a man who was just going around to my neighbour's car, which was parked opposite.
strong disagreement
There is fierce/strong opposition to the proposed changes.
The unions are in opposition to the government over the issue of privatization.
The students, in an attempt to demonstrate the opposition of the Greek people to the military regime, occupied their schools for many days.
the political parties in a country that are not part of the government
The opposition is arguing for a review of the policy.
He was elected MP for a record of 9 times and was the leader of EPE for many years, leading the opposition when Georgios Papandreou, Andreas' father was in power.
to choose something or to decide to do something
Mike opted for early retirement.
Most people opt to have the operation.
My recommendation today is to take into consideration people's views and opt for the 'Park and Ride'.
when you believe good things will happen
There was a note of optimism in his voice as he spoke about the company's future.
Judging from your examination results, I think you have cause for cautious optimism about getting a university place.
We had never been abroad on our own and our hearts were full with a mixture of optimism, curiosity and absurd fears.
someone who always believes that good things will happen
She's an optimist.
She is an incurable optimist with a great sense of humour.
always believing that good things will happen
She is optimistic about her chances of winning a gold medal.
I'm not very optimistic about them being sensitive enough to try to produce fewer cars, putting human life before their profits.
a choice
We don't have many options.
I'm still considering my options.
The best option would be to cancel the trip altogether.
We always have the option of refusing to go.
There are various options open to someone who is willing to work hard.
It sounds like a difficult decision to make, but my advice is to go to a large school in the centre of the town, because I think you'll have way more options to choose from.
to not have the possibility of doing something else
We didn't want to dismiss him, but we had no option.
For example, on the first day, Monday, students have the day free with their host parents but there are some of them who work all day and the students have no option but to stay alone in the house.
If something is optional, you can choose whether to do it, pay it, buy it, etc.
English is compulsory for all students, but art and music are optional.
Referring to optional lessons, it was recommended that Speaking and Listening, Computer Studies and Business English are suitable for filming.
used between possibilities, or before the last in a list of possibilities
Would you like tea or coffee?
Is that a boy or a girl?
You can have beer, wine or mineral water.
It was either 1982 or 1983 - I can't remember which.
There were ten or twelve people in the room.
It will only take three or four days.
I like to eat pasta or pizza, but I'm easy about food, I can eat anything.
used after a negative verb to mean not one thing and also not another
Tim doesn't eat meat or fish.
She doesn't have a telephone or a computer.
OH! and please don't wear jeans or white clothes.
used to express the possibility that something might not happen
Are you going to reply or not?
I still don't know whether she's coming or not.
Are you busy or not that day?
used to give someone a warning or advice
You should eat more, or you'll make yourself ill.
She called "Bill, come here or you'll be in trouble".
approximately
They raised two hundred pounds or so for charity.
After an hour or so they changed the flight and new people came, then he realised that his suitcase was lost.
used to change or correct something you have said
We told the truth, or most of it.
Rosalind, or Roz to her friends, took the initiative.
Things have been going quite well recently. Or they were, up until two days ago.
She is the one who goes around with all Rebecca's secrets. Or, almost all the secrets.
used to say what will happen if another thing does not happen
We must be there by six, or else we'll miss the beginning.
He told me to hurry up, or else I would miss my bus.
used to give a reason for something you have said
She must love him or she wouldn't have stayed with him all these years.
used to show a very small number, usually one or two
I'd like to say a word or two about loyalty.
Many fathers do not realize what they are missing by not demanding the privilege of staying at home with the child, at least for a month or two.
used to compare two different things or situations
He talks to her all the time, or else he completely ignores her.
Naturally Olivia's leaving affects Douglas, though not as strongly as one could have expected or else he simply does not show it.
spoken, not written
an oral agreement/exam
To sum it up, watching TV improves our oral skills and is a better way of taking notice of the world outside, whereas books improve our writing and reading skills.
being a colour that is a mixture of red and yellow
The setting sun filled the sky with a deep orange glow.
The walls are yellow and the cupboard is orange.
a round, sweet fruit with a thick skin and a centre that is divided into many equal parts
a glass of orange juice
I like eating a sandwich with Flora and I like drinking tea with sugar or orange juice.
a colour between red and yellow
His car is a bright orange.
We will use the magenta, pink, yellow and my favourite orange.
a large group of musicians who play different instruments together
a symphony orchestra
She's a cellist in the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra.
I have to go for orchestra practice as we are going to perform on television next week.
played by, written for or to do with an orchestra
an orchestral arrangement
The lyrics are about life, love, pain and death but the most important thing is how these lyrics match with the orchestral part of the song.
a very unpleasant experience
The hostages' ordeal came to an end when soldiers stormed the building.
They feared he would not survive the ordeal.
She went through the ordeal of being interviewed by a panel of ten people.
The first ordeal is the transfer to the airport, in which tears from the children on the back seats along with the many questions about what probably might be missing are fixed points in the programme.
a request to make, supply or deliver food or goods
Has the waiter taken our order yet?
I would like to place an order for a large pine table.
You either have to flip burgers or take customers' orders.
the way in which people or things are arranged, either in relation to one another or according to a particular characteristic
The children lined up in order of age/height.
I can't find the file I need because they're all out of order.
I've put the files in alphabetical order.
This is the order of the wedding ceremony: first the man and the woman enter the church together.
with the purpose of achieving something
He came home early in order to see the children before they went to bed.
She worked all summer in order to save enough money.
She will go to the United States in order to improve her English.
If a machine or system is out of order, it is not working as it should.
The coffee machine's out of order.
Last week my TV was out of order.
an instruction that someone must obey
The soldiers fired as soon as their commander gave the order.
Soldiers must obey orders.
Today I can still remember my last order: "Put that light out!"
a situation in which everything is in its correct place
I like to put everything in order before I go away.
The house was so untidy that she spent the whole day trying to establish some sort of order.
Everthing was clean and in order.
a situation in which people obey laws and there is no trouble
The teacher found it hard to keep her class in order.
As the demonstration began to turn violent, the police were called in to restore order.
After some heated discussion, the chair called the meeting to order.
Some young people began to be aggressive, putting everything in a mess; some policemen trying to restore order even got wounded.
the way that the economy, politics, or society is organized
a threat to the established social order
The failure of the social order Ralph tries to establish and the success of beautifully painted hunters led by Jack, hunting pigs up in the mountains, slowly makes the number of Ralph's supporters diminish.
the obeying of laws in society
a breakdown in law and order
The breakdown in law and order, lack of basic amenities to support life, absence of a fair and enabling environment for citizens to thrive, to mention but a few, are some among many factors that constitute the cogent reason why most Nigerians choose to travel out of their own country.
to ask for food, goods, etc.
I ordered some pasta and a mixed salad.
There are no shirts left in this size but we could order one for you/order you one.
After 15 minutes I ordered a "Party Pizza".
to give someone an instruction that they must obey
The management has ordered a cutback in spending.
"Wait over there," she ordered.
They ordered him to leave the room.
Then, the men ordered him to walk back to the museum as if nothing had happened.
not special, different, or unusual in any way
These are ordinary people living ordinary lives.
It was a fairly ordinary house.
I thought the food was very ordinary.
It is an ordinary bedroom with white-coloured walls, two drawers, a TV and a bed, of course.
unusual or different
Their relationship was a little out of the ordinary.
The investigation revealed nothing out of the ordinary.
This event is something out of the ordinary for local life and it gives our town prestige and originality.
a part of an animal or plant that has a special purpose
an external/internal/reproductive organ
an organ donor/transplant
Now you can replace or heal almost every bone or organ in a human body.
a large musical instrument that has keys like a piano and produces different notes when air is blown through pipes of different lengths
a church organ
I played the piano for three hours every day, took organ lessons and at the age of 10 started to write programs on my home computer.
not using artificial chemicals when keeping animals or growing plants for food
organic food/fruit/farms/farmers/vegetables
Also, people care more about what really is in the food they eat and so interest in organic food is increasing.
an official group of people who work together for the same purpose
the World Health Organization
The article was about the international aid organizations.
Everyone would pay for it and they would give the money to an organisation who help poor children in Africa.
the planning of an activity or event
He didn't want to be involved in the organization of/for the conference, although he agreed to attend.
I hope you could come and help me with this party organization?
the way that parts of something are arranged
I'm trying to improve the organization of my computer files.
He also stressed the importance of timing and organisation of your speech and the procedure of business meetings.
to plan or arrange something
He had organized the whole event.
They organized a meeting between the teachers and students.
She had organized a car to meet me at the airport.
There are two soccer fields where the members organise matches and tournaments.
to do or arrange something according to a particular system
The books were organized on the shelves according to their size.
Now Museums are big, have lots of light and you can find the latest technology in them. They are organized in such a different way.
planned or arranged
We didn't go on an organized tour.
The letters had been placed in organized piles, one for each letter of the alphabet.
Are there any organized trips?
describes someone who is able to plan things carefully and keep things tidy
She's not a very organized person and she always arrives late at meetings.
I am also a very organised person and extremely healthy.
someone who plans an event or activity
conference/exhibition organizers
There aren't enough seats for all the guests - I must tell the organizers.
According to the organisers, they sold over 5,000 tickets.
the type of beliefs that a person has
He's very secretive about his political orientation.
Travelling can be enlightening for people who travel to a country which is poorer or a country with a different political orientation.
training or preparation for a new job or activity
an orientation session
I may require some training or orientation should you be using specialized cleaning tools or equipment.
the cause of something, or where something begins or comes from
What's the origin of that saying?
It's a book about the origins of the universe.
The furniture was French in origin.
The cooking is based on traditional recipes of Westfalian origin and it is tasty but often very rich!
the country, race, or social class of a person's family
He is of North African origin.
What is your of origin?
The president's family was of humble origins.
The rules are very simple, they can be understood by everyone, regardless of age, origin or social status.
existing since the beginning, or being the earliest form of something
That was my original plan.
Is this the original fireplace?
The gardens have recently been restored to their original glory.
The film was amazing, with excellent special effects and good actors, even if some of the story is a little different from the original novel (which I've read twice!)
special and interesting because of not being the same as others
Her essay was full of original ideas.
He's a highly original thinker.
I like to be original.
describes a piece of work produced by an artist or writer and not a copy
an original drawing/manuscript
Is this an original Rembrandt?
The War Theatre is visited daily by thousands of people from all over the world because of its fantastic Van Gogh original paintings.
something that is in the form in which it was first created and has not been copied or changed
If the painting is an original, it will be very valuable.
She was paying him, but not as much as she would need to to buy the original.
at the beginning or before any changes
Originally it was a bedroom, but we turned it into a study.
I've been living in England for 6 months and I have studied English for 8 years in Sweden, where I was originally born.
to come from a particular place, person or cause, or to begin during a particular period
Citrus fruits originated in China and Southeast Asia.
They originated in Polynesia but had come to New Zealand about one thousand years ago.
an attractive object that is used as a decoration in a home or garden
There were glass ornaments on the shelf.
Expensive products such as necklaces and decorative ornaments are highly represented, much to the joy of the more wealthy people in the town.
a child whose parents have died
They adopted an orphan.
"Vanyka" is a story about a nine-year-old orphan sent to Moscow to work as a servant in a rich person's house.
keeping the traditional beliefs and customs of Judaism or some types of Christianity
an orthodox Jewish family
the Russian/Greek Orthodox Church
Her ancestors were orthodox Jews and Rabbis.
If ideas or methods are orthodox, most people think they are correct, usually because they have existed for a long time.
orthodox medicine
Despite both being healthy people something appeared to be wrong after following all the orthodox methods to conceive a child.
as well as the person or thing already mentioned
There is only one other person who could help us.
Are there any other people we should tell?
The product has many other features.
There is no other work available at the moment.
She likes meeting other people because she wants to improve her English.
used to talk about the remaining members of a group or items in a set
Mario and Anna sat down to watch the other dancers.
I've found one earring - do you know where the other one is?
One part is green and the other part is blue.
different from the thing or person already mentioned
I don't have any cash - is there no other way of paying?
Ask me some other time when I'm not so busy.
He likes travelling abroad and learning about other people's customs and traditions.
The two kids had waited long enough so they decided to walk. The girl asked: "Is there any other way the Man can hurt us?"
the opposite side or end of something
Put the chair at the other end of the desk.
The man was waiting on the other side of the street.
I'll move my bed to the other side of my room.
referring to a day, week, etc. in the recent past without saying exactly when it was
I saw him just the other day/night.
Dear John, Thanks for the letter you wrote me the other day.
used to introduce an explanation that is simpler than the one given earlier
He was economical with the truth - in other words, he was lying.
We are able to use zoos as a place where we can spend our free time with our children. In other words, it is a good place for the family.
happening in the opposite way
I thought the older people would be more offended than the young people, but it was the other way round.
As you know, I did that the other way round for the States.
used when you cannot or do not want to be exact about the information you are giving
The event was held in some park or other.
We'll find someone or other to help us.
Maybe you hate the memory of boring literature classes at school, but I'm sure each of you is interested in some subject or other.
different from or except
Holidays other than those in this brochure do not have free places for children.
The form cannot be signed by anyone other than yourself.
There's nothing on TV tonight, other than rubbish.
There are no vegetarian alternatives other than cheese sandwiches, which our members find very depressing.
except for the thing you have just said
My arm was a bit sore - other than that I was fine.
Currently, I only have a small corner in the room whereas my sisters get a bigger portion. This means I have to keep all my things under the bed. Other than that, I would like a big beautiful garden because I love nature.
happening one day/week, etc. but not the next
Alice goes to the gym every other day.
The rubbish is collected every other day, which is quite often.
used to refer to a person or thing which belongs to a group or set that you have already talked about
Hold the racket in one hand and the ball in the other.
She gave me one book last week and promised to bring the others on Wednesday.
Some people prefer a vegetarian diet, while others prefer a meat-based diet.
I really wanted you to come with me and the others.
used to show that each person in a group of two or more people does something to the others
They kept looking at each other and smiling.
They're always wearing each other's clothes.
Why are you always arguing with each other?
We can write to each other once a month.
people in general, not including yourself
You shouldn't expect others to do your work for you.
I think that I would be very useful there, because I know that they need people who enjoy helping others and I am one of those people.
more ones
This one is broken - do you have any others?
I only know about this book, but there might be others.
In fact, we might manage to do some interesting activities such as mountain biking in Sintra, canoeing in Teja, etc. You would be glad to see how many interesting people we might meet while doing those activities and any others that you would like to do.
used after an order or suggestion to show what the result will be if you do not follow that order or suggestion
I'd better write it down, otherwise I'll forget it.
You really must phone home. Otherwise, your parents will start to worry.
Oh! I'll have to buy a table for the computer. Otherwise, I'll have to use my computer on my bed.
except for what has just been referred to
The bike needs a new saddle, but otherwise it's in good condition.
The poor sound quality ruined an otherwise splendid film.
This seemed the high point of an otherwise dull and disorganised event.
different to what has just been stated
I'll meet you there at 6 o'clock, unless I hear otherwise.
The police believe he is the thief, but all the evidence suggests otherwise.
Under the law, a person is presumed innocent until proved otherwise.
Marion Morrison, otherwise known as the film star John Wayne, was born in 1907.
I can't meet you on Tuesday - I'm otherwise engaged.
An important event in the history of Greece was the Civil War between the cities of Athens and Sparti around 400 B.C., otherwise known as the Peloponnesian War.
used to say or ask what is the correct or best thing to do
We ought to tidy up before we go.
You ought to see a doctor.
He ought to have told her the truth.
Ought I to phone her?
I ought to go to the doctor tomorrow.
used to say that you expect something to be true or that you expect something to happen
She ought to be home by now.
He ought to pass the exam this time.
All the students ought to know how famous you are. You are a very well-known writer who was born in Rhodes.
belonging to or relating to us
We bought our house several years ago.
He walked off and left us on our own.
Our plans have changed.
Every day, we have to give our teacher our homework.
used to show that something belongs to or is connected with the person who is speaking and one or more other people
Which table is ours?
He's a cousin of ours.
Ours is the red car parked over there.
Ours is a huge country.
We met a lot of friends of ours.
the reflexive form of the pronoun 'we'
We really enjoyed ourselves.
We promised ourselves a good holiday this year.
The hotel was very quiet so we had the swimming pool all to ourselves.
We all enjoyed ourselves very much at the party.
alone or without anyone else's help
We finished the work by ourselves.
Will we be able to do it ourselves or will we need help?
Anyway, we had to try to fix the stupid car by ourselves.
used to refer to a period of time when someone goes away from home for a social activity
He's out nearly every night.
He's asked me out to the cinema next week.
After the film, we can have dinner out.
not in the place where you usually live or work, especially for a short time
I came round to see you this morning, but you were out.
Someone phoned for you while you were out.
Will you give it back to my father because I am out for a while.
used to show movement away from the inside of a place or container
Get out!
She opened the window and stuck her head out.
The bag burst and the apples fell out.
He opened the drawer and took out a pair of socks.
My secretary will see you out.
When I was on the plane, I decided to open my suitcase to take out my CD player because I was bored.
able to be seen
The stars are out tonight.
The rain stopped and the sun came out.
The flowers are starting to come out.
In the beginning it was raining a little bit, but then the sun came out.
available to buy or see
Is the new Harry Potter book out yet?
The new Tarantino movie comes out in August.
It came out just yesterday.
to the point where something is removed or disappears
The stain won't come out.
Cross out any words that are not on the list.
A friend of mine told me, when he was in Lampton, that you couldn't have special rates for students at Hotel Royal, so you should cross that information out of the guide.
If you say or read something out loud, you say or read it so that other people can hear you.
I had to read the essay out loud in front of the whole school.
She wouldn't accept it so I read it out loud for her to hear: "Director, Jason Meyer, and producer, Sami Woods, are receiving...".
If a light or fire is out, it is no longer shining or burning.
When we got home, all the lights were out.
Is that fire completely out?
I looked out through the window to check if the lights were out in the windows of the block of flats next to ours.
not accurate
Your figures are out by £300.
a long distance away from land, a town or your own country
The fishing boats were out at sea for three days.
They live out in the countryside, miles from anywhere.
He lived out in Zambia for seven years.
Today I live out in the country.
having no money, no luck and no opportunities
Nobody loves you when you're down and out.
The neglect of social security as a vital point in state policies leaves homeless people down and out, with little chance for improving their bleak prospects.
the details of a particular subject
the ins and outs of the legal system
I knew all the ins and outs of every story but I couldn't stay one single day in bed without reading it.
when something unpleasant and difficult to control starts, such as a war or disease
an outbreak of flu/food poisoning/rioting/war
Last weekend saw further thundery outbreaks.
Being a GP during the time of another outbreak of the flu, meant long hours of hard work.
the final result of an activity or process
It's too early to predict the outcome of the meeting.
In order to ensure a pleasant end-of-term activity and to avoid yet another negative outcome, it is necessary for us to dispose of a great sum of money.
happening, used, or in a place that is outside and not inside a building
an outdoor swimming pool/concert
outdoor clothes
The water temperature of the outdoor pool is relatively cold because it's filled with natural mountain-spring-water.
outside
If the weather's good, we'll eat outdoors.
My parents always tell me that I should spend more time outdoors.
on the edge or surface of something
Remove the outer layers of the onion.
the outer lane of the motorway
outer London
Perhaps you could give some consideration to the outer building, like renovation work.
Someone who is outgoing is friendly, talks a lot, and enjoys meeting people.
Anne is very outgoing, but her sister's quite shy.
He is very outgoing, friendly and communicative.
going to another place, or leaving a job
outgoing mail/calls/flights
the outgoing chairman
We therefore propose you scrap your plans for Terminal 5 and instead try to reduce the number of incoming and outgoing flights, by diverting some planes to Luton or Stansted or Gatwick Airport.
money that you have to spend on rent, food, etc.
After my regular outgoings, I have about £100 a week left.
When you have paid for all your outgoings, you could start to think about entertainment.
In business, an outlet is a shop that sells one type of product or the products of one company.
He works in a sports outlet outside town.
In addition, the atmosphere is cheered up by the presence of the most well-known fast-food outlets of our country, where the client can find some rest and food at a good price.
a way for someone to express an emotion, idea, or ability
She needs a job that will provide an outlet for her creative talent.
I am a very busy person but I try to find time to go to concerts, which, I think, are an excellent outlet for our feelings.
a short description of the most important ideas or facts about something
If you read the minutes of the meeting, they'll give you a brief/broad outline of what was discussed.
Some novelists start by writing an outline.
Perhaps a brief outline of the party will help you to make your decision.
the shape made by the outside edge of something
She drew the outline of the boat and then coloured it in.
The roof tiles were of a beautiful shade of pink, each of them carved in an outline of a heart.
to describe only the most important ideas or facts about something
At the interview she outlined what I would be doing.
First of all, I will briefly outline some personal details.
the likely future situation
The outlook for the economy is bleak.
The outlook for today is cloudy and dry at first with showers later.
The outlook for all three companies is bright over the next 5 years.
the way a person thinks about something
Despite her illness, she has a very positive outlook on life.
He was a kind and friendly man, with an optimistic outlook on life.
to be larger in number than another group
Women now far outnumber men on language courses.
An annual average rate of 10% GDP growth for the past ten years has created more than 7 million new jobs, which outnumbered the number of new male entrants.
old and no longer useful, correct or fashionable
I had a very out-of-date map.
I don't want to be an out-of-date person.
no longer in a particular place or area
Take the main road out of the city.
He has been out of the country for a long time.
When you arrive please come to my home and then we can go there because it's out of the city.
used to show movement away from the inside of a place or container
A peach rolled out of the bag.
I jumped out of bed and ran downstairs.
Once he told me that he and his other friend saw a cat falling out of a window.
used to show what something is made from
The dress is made out of silk.
The statue was carved out of a single block of stone.
I love clothes which are made out of cotton. These are perfect for this hot weather.
from among an amount or number
Nine out of ten people said they liked the product.
No one got 20 out of 20 in the test.
He got 99.4 out of 100, "Oh my God".
old and no longer useful, correct or fashionable
These unemployment figures are out of date.
The library has got very poor staff and most of it is out of date.
If a machine or system is out of order, it is not working as it should.
The coffee machine's out of order.
Last week my TV was out of order.
not in a job
I've been out of work for the last six months.
Both she and her husband are out of work.
Right now I am out of work and would like to try something different for a while.
no longer in a particular condition or situation
The patient is now out of danger.
She told me that D was out of danger and that she will have other information tomorrow.
used to show the reason why someone does something
I took the job out of necessity because we had no money left.
Just out of interest, how much did it cost you?
I only went there out of curiosity.
When the warrior had left, the explorer explored the cave out of curiosity and to his big surprise found the treasure.
to have no more of something left
We're nearly out of petrol.
By then I was out of money so I started walking.
to be breathing quickly because you have been running, walking fast, etc.
He burst into the room, red-faced and out of breath.
I find that shopping is very good exercise too! By the time you have completed the whole High Street, you will be out of breath.
If something or someone is out of control, you cannot influence, limit or direct them.
The car skidded and went out of control, crashing into an oncoming truck.
I had just driven through Piazza Duomo, when another car came round a corner much too fast, skidded, and went out of control.
If someone or something appears out of nowhere, it appears suddenly or unexpectedly.
The car came out of nowhere and we had to swerve to miss it.
I was lying all alone on the beach, then suddenly, out of nowhere, right behind me those strange creatures appeared.
to not do something well because you have not done it recently
I didn't play very well today - I'm out of practice.
I think playing in the club will be a great opportunity for me so as not to be out of practice.
not available in a shop
The book is out of stock at the moment.
And sometimes the item you are looking for is out of stock.
If vegetables or fruit are out of season, they are not usually available at that time.
Strawberries are out of season at the moment.
As our place was famous for fresh sea food, I bought crabs and salmon although they were out of season and expensive.
singing or playing the wrong notes
The piano is out of tune.
Even if you sing out of tune please call us.
If something happens out of the blue, it is completely unexpected.
One day, out of the blue, she announced that she was leaving.
Dear Kim, I was extremely happy when I received your letter out of the blue.
damaged or hurt and not able to operate or play sports
I'm afraid my car's out of action.
They've got three players out of action.
The air-conditioning in my room was out of action and the hotel manager didn't care.
not having the knowledge, experience, or skills to deal with a particular subject or situation
When they start talking about philosophy, I'm completely out of my depth.
It was my first day of school. What I can remember is that I really felt out of my depth: my parents were so happy that I couldn't succeed in telling them that I was terribly frightened and that the only thing that I wanted was my doll.
without a job
How long have you been out of a job?
So, what is so terrible about being out of a job, you might ask yourself.
unusual or different
Their relationship was a little out of the ordinary.
The investigation revealed nothing out of the ordinary.
This event is something out of the ordinary for local life and it gives our town prestige and originality.
to be of extremely good quality
Their chocolate cake is just out of this world!
The dessert trays are out of this world.
If someone's actions or words are out of line, they are not suitable or acceptable.
Her remarks to the press were way out of line.
Today I see that my mother was right in this aspect since I acted extremely out of line sometimes and a soft hand certainly wouldn't help me in the future.
to become difficult to control
It was the end of term and the children were getting a little out of hand.
A few solutions can prevent this problem from getting out of hand.
not in the correct position
Why are my files all out of place?
It was awful getting back from school and seeing all my things out of place.
not right or suitable for a particular situation
Everyone else was wearing jeans and I felt completely out of place in my office clothes.
This does not mean everybody is wearing tuxedos and dresses but you might be out of place just wearing shorts and a shirt.
If something is out of proportion, it is much bigger or smaller than it should be, when compared to other things.
The punishment is completely out of proportion to the crime.
If you were doing it to make a profit, I could understand, but for a library it is just out of proportion and I even believe more people could be attracted if the prices decrease.
If something is out of the question, it is not possible or not allowed.
Providing more money is out of the question.
Walking home was out of the question since that would have taken even longer.
If you go somewhere out of season, you go during a period of the year when few people are there.
I prefer to travel out of season.
Some towns that are completely dependent on tourism "die" out of season, while others are destroyed because of the excessive emigration of their people.
not healthy or physically strong
Since I stopped cycling, I'm very out of shape.
I no longer run and it has been more than a year since the last time I raced, so I am out of shape.
to know little about what has recently happened
I've been abroad for the last two years, so I'm very out of touch.
In much worse cases, some individuals may even be trapped in the virtual world and get out of touch with the real one.
an amount of something produced by a person, machine, factory, country, etc.
Last year British manufacturing output fell by 14%.
The right-wing thinkers claim that unemployment is one of the indicators in the economy, displaying a lack of balance between industrial output and citizens' demands.
a strong feeling of anger or shock
Many politicians and members of the public expressed outrage at the verdict.
something that causes great anger or shock
The terrible living conditions of migrant workers, he said, were an outrage.
It's an outrage that so much public money should have been wasted in this way.
It shows one child's reaction to the outrage, to the fear and it as been held out as an example of the unthinkable and cruel effects that a racist mentality may have.
to cause someone to feel very angry, shocked, or upset
The proposed pay cut outraged the staff.
I was outraged when I was given a copy of an article published in your magazine.
shocking or extreme
outrageous behaviour/clothes
That's an outrageous thing to say!
The prices in that restaurant were outrageous.
The only negative thing to be said about this restaurant is that the prices are outrageous, but it is worth every penny.
at or from the beginning of something
I made my views clear at the outset.
We knew from the outset that we were unlikely to win.
From the outset I hadn't liked that hotel.
not inside a building
It's cold outside!
Go and play outside for a while.
Shall we eat outside as the weather is so nice?
You can sit on the chair outside and look at the bridge.
not in a particular room or building but near it
I'll wait outside while you get changed.
She knocked on his bedroom door and left the tray outside.
We are going to go to Top Totty and will wait for you outside.
not in a particular room, building or place, but near it
She waited outside his room for nearly two hours.
He lives just outside Birmingham.
I'll meet you outside the art class.
not in a building
an outside light
I was going to say to him to turn on the outside light, but seeing his face, I changed my mind.
coming from another place or organization
The company has called in outside experts.
the outer part or side of something
The outside of the house needs painting.
The house looks larger when looked at from the outside.
It had been dark in the room since the door was locked from the outside.
the outer area of a city or town
There are plans to build a new stadium on the outskirts of Liverpool.
They live in Melbourne's south-eastern outskirts.
In spite of travelling for hours a day, I prefer staying on the outskirts of London.
excellent and much better than most
an outstanding achievement
It's an area of outstanding natural beauty.
This is an outstanding first novel.
Although it was an outstanding festival, I would like to point out some problems which happened there.
to be greater or more important than something else
The benefits of this treatment far outweigh the risks.
However, in my opinion the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages and competition is a natural phenomenon that we should accept.
in the shape of an egg or a slightly flat circle
an oval mirror
an oval face
It was green, oval and opaque.
the part of a cooker with a door, which is used to cook food
a microwave oven
a cool/medium/hot oven
Place the cake in the oven at 200°C.
They eat the traditional food souvlaki and potatoes cooked in the oven.
more than a particular amount, number, or age
Most of the bikes cost/are over £300.
Children over the age of 12 must have full-price tickets.
They are already $25 million over budget.
We have to dance in a school and over two hundred people will watch us.
covering something or someone
Put a blanket over you to keep warm.
I put my hands over my eyes because I didn't want to see.
Wear an apron over your clothes.
above or higher than something
The sign over the door said "Exit".
A flock of geese flew over the trees.
She held the umbrella over both of us.
Besides that, you have voted for the construction of a new bridge over the main street.
across from one side of something to the other, especially by going up and then down
She jumped over the gate.
The road goes over the mountains.
She is always chatting with her neighbour over the garden fence.
From the top of the tower you could see for miles over the city.
Tanks travel over the most difficult ground.
I most enjoyed it when we were cycling over the hills, because there weren't any people and it was peaceful and quiet.
everywhere in a particular place
Soon the news was all over town.
The people in the class are from all over the world.
during a particular period of time
I was in Seattle over the summer.
We discussed the matter over lunch.
It's fascinating to watch how a baby changes and develops over time.
He apologised for the trouble and when he heard that they just wanted to stay over the weekend, he said they should go and buy the most important things and enjoy the weekend as the suitcase wouldn't arrive until Monday.
on the other side of
There's a pub over the road we could go to.
The story continues over the page.
The station is over the bridge.
in this/that place
Put your bags down over there.
How is everything over there?
using
They spoke over the phone.
We heard the news over the radio.
She laughed over the phone, and said "It's really like you".
in control of or teaching someone or something
A good teacher has an easy authority over a class.
She's a sales manager but she has a regional sales director over her.
The victory over the French at Waterloo was Wellington's greatest triumph.
Fortunately, my parents do not wield authority over me and my siblings like dictators.
connected with or about
It's stupid arguing over something so trivial.
The teams themselves suffered from these money problems: recently strikes broke out in basketball teams in the U.S when players began to argue over money.
too extreme and not suitable
I thought her performance was way over the top.
In addition to that, many so-called "stars" have that certain over the top attitude, which would not be welcome in normal life.
more than a particular amount or level
People who are 65 years old and over can get half-price tickets.
In my opinion, the minimum working age being 18 and over, I think the school leaving age should be limited to just 16.
from one side or place to another
She leaned over and kissed me.
Why don't you come over for dinner on Thursday?
I've got a friend over from Canada this week.
Now we're going over to Wembley for commentary on the Cup Final.
He came over to me and we talked a while.
finished
I'll be glad when the competition is over.
I used to have a thriving business and a happy marriage, but that's all over now.
David smiled triumphantly and said, "It is all over!"
describes the way an object moves or is moved so that a different part of it is facing up
She turned another page over.
A big truck had turned over and blocked the road and there was no other way for us to go, so we had to wait.
happening or done many times
I read the article over and over till it made sense.
I've been searching in newspapers over and over again and finally after a couple of days I found something.
repeated from the beginning
We had to start all over again.
After that I went back to my home in Ribeirao Preto to begin my routine all over again.
to do something difficult or unpleasant as soon as you can so that you do not have to worry about it any more
I got all my apologies over and done with at the beginning of the meeting.
Not to mention that he knew that he had to get his degree over and done with before he started making serious decisions.
in general rather than in particular, or including all the people or things in a particular group or situation
The overall situation is good, despite a few minor problems.
Overall, it has been a good year.
The overall winner, after ten games, will receive $50,000.
Overall these two restaurants are worth going to for nice meals.
over the side of a boat and into the water
to fall overboard
My diary is lost - it fell overboard on my way home.
to do something too much, or to be too excited about something
I think people go overboard with presents at Christmas.
While no one should restrict their eating habits to the point eating is no longer a pleasure, but rather a chore, it is important not to go overboard, completely disregarding the advice of nutrition experts.
to deal with and control a problem or feeling
I admire the way she has overcome her difficulties/problems and made a success of her life.
Eventually he managed to overcome his shyness in class.
Trying to overcome my fear, I was slowly going toward the dangerous stranger.
to suddenly have too much of a feeling
She was overcome by emotion.
When she got in her house she was overcome by a sense of wrath and started screaming and crying.
containing too many people or things
an overcrowded classroom/prison
As you arrive about midday, the trams are likely to be overcrowded.
to do or use too much of something
I went to the gym yesterday, but I think I overdid it a bit.
On the other hand, people usually overdo it and prefer making use of the modern technology to meeting a friend.
If you have an overdraft, you have taken more money out of your bank account than you had in it.
a £250 overdraft
In addition, some young people use credit cards to buy luxurious products, which leads to bank overdrafts.
If you are overdrawn, you have taken more money out of your bank account than you had in it.
We've gone £200 overdrawn!
In other words their expenditure is much more than their income. They get into debt and are mostly overdrawn.
to guess or think that something is or will be bigger or better than it really is
They overestimated her ability to do the job.
In spite of the progress achieved in promoting the social status of women, one should not overestimate the significance of these achievements to ordinary women's careers.
If a container overflows, the things inside it start to come out because it is too full, and if the contents of a container overflow, they come our because it is too full.
The bath overflowed, and there's water all over the floor!
The bin was overflowing with rubbish.
The river overflowed its banks after the heavy rainfall.
As a result of relentless rain the river had broken its banks and overflowed violently.
If a place is overflowing, there are too many people in it.
The square was overflowing with people trying to see the queen.
The prisons are overflowing, society is losing out in many ways.
to have a lot of a quality or emotion
Her father was overflowing with pride as he watched her collect her award.
She felt overflowing with indignation as if he had been rude to her.
to hear what someone is saying when they are not talking to you
I overheard him telling her he was leaving.
I once overheard a remark from a person who had just been in Italy.
If two subjects or activities overlap, they are the same in some way.
Although our job titles are different, our responsibilities overlap quite a lot.
Of course, these two motivations can be overlapping and ideally they do overlap.
to give someone too much to do
All the staff are completely overloaded.
I feel that they overload their children with activities.
I was also overloaded with work and had many doubts about joining the group at all.
when someone has more of something than they can deal with
We are suffering from data overload here.
Will we get to the point of "information overload"?
to have a view of something from above
Our hotel room overlooked the harbour.
The house is surrounded by trees, so it's not overlooked at all.
The apartment was very big and there was a balcony which overlooked the beach.
to not notice or consider something
Two important facts have been overlooked in this case.
Of course, man's basic needs cannot be overlooked and a certain amount of wealth can be put to very good use, wisely to provide for oneself and one's family and home.
for or during the night
an overnight stop in Paris
You can stay overnight if you want to.
Don't forget to pack an overnight bag.
We will stay in our tents overnight and get up early in the morning to reach the next camping site.
very quickly or suddenly
Change does not happen overnight.
I am aware of the fact that it is not at all an easy path nor is it something that can happen overnight.
in, from or to other countries
We need to open up the overseas markets.
There are a lot of overseas students in Cambridge.
Many more people work overseas these days.
It is suggested that one of our English as a Foreign Language lessons should be filmed, as there are some 100 overseas students who are from over 30 countries in our school.
to go past a vehicle or person that is going in the same direction
We were overtaken by a red sports car.
Always check your rear view mirror before you overtake (another car).
Of course it is easier for a bike to overtake the cars in traffic jams.
to go past something by being a greater amount or degree
Our US sales have now overtaken our sales in Europe.
We'd planned to hold a meeting tomorrow, but events have overtaken us.
This however was projected to be overtaken by people coming from the 35-49 year old bracket by 2006.
extra time that you work after your usual working hours
unpaid overtime
You can't go on living like this, chasing around and always being pressured by your work and all this overtime.
a short description giving the most important facts about something
I'll just give you an overview of the job.
This report will give a brief overview of my experiences from my recent attendance on their April course.
knowledge of the general features of something
Having spent some time there, she had a good overview of the market.
As my main interest was to get an overview of the current market situation, I was simply impressed by the variety of companies that you've presented.
too heavy or too fat
He's still a few pounds overweight.
In England the majority of people are either overweight or underweight.
If a feeling or situation overwhelms someone, it has an effect that is too strong or extreme.
She was overwhelmed by the excitement of it all.
I am sure the students from the acting classes will be overwhelmed by the grandeur of the 200-seat theatre.
very strong in effect or large in amount
She felt an overwhelming urge/desire/need to tell someone about what had happened.
She said how much she appreciated the overwhelming generosity of the public in responding to the appeal.
An overwhelming majority have voted in favour of the proposal.
Therefore, the overwhelming majority of school-leavers annually strive to enter a state institution of higher education.
Someone who is overworked has to work too much.
We're overworked and underpaid.
People are overworked and often choose fast food for dinner.
to have to pay money back to someone
I owe Janet ten pounds.
We still owe £1000 to the bank.
Please tell me how much I owe you for that.
to have to give something to someone because they deserve it
I think you owe me an explanation/apology.
I owe you a favour.
to have something or achieve something because of someone or something else
The museum owes much of its success to the present generation of young British artists.
Many restaurants, bars and gift shops owe their existence to the fact that visitors to our country enjoy the view of the river and its surroundings.
because of
The concert has been cancelled owing to low ticket sales.
To start with, it is a great idea to change rooms because they are too crowded, owing to the fact that there a lot of people.
a bird with a flat face, large eyes, and strong curved nails, which hunts small mammals at night
We heard an owl hooting in the night.
I could hear an owl hooting in the tree nearby.
belonging to or done by a particular person or thing
Each student has their own dictionary.
She has her own apartment.
She makes all her own clothes.
I'm going to be out tonight, so you'll have to get your own dinner.
Was that your own idea or did someone suggest it to you?
"Is that your mum's car?" "No, it's my own."
We have to bring our own paints.
belonging to someone or something
I'll have a home of my own someday.
He wanted an apartment of his own.
I also bought a cupboard of my own, so that I need not share with my sister.
alone
I like living on my own.
On Wednesday morning I went on my own to see the Vatican.
without any help
I did my buttons up all on my own, Mummy.
Maybe I can do the missing work on my own.
to do something unpleasant to someone because they have done something unpleasant to you
I got my own back by putting a frog in her bed.
There, Kingshaw has the opportunity to get his own back by pushing Hooper down the wall, but he doesn't dare because he is not as cruel as Hooper.
to be as successful as other people or things
Alison could always hold her own in political debates.
An average IT company in the UK is only 30% female so it is vital to be comfortable in the company of so many men, and to be able to hold your own against them in meetings and discussions.
to have something that legally belongs to you
We own our house.
I've never owned a suit in my life.
It is owned by a Japanese owner.
someone who owns something
Are you the owner of this car?
We still haven't found the dog's owner.
The owner was an old woman who lives alone in a big house with her pet animals.
when you own something
Do you have any proof of ownership for this car?
As people's disposable income rises, more and more people can now afford cars. Furthermore, cheap imports from the newly industrialised countries have also contributed to the increase in car ownership.
a gas that is in the air and that animals need to live
an oxygen tank
Everybody needs oxygen and trees produce oxygen.
a form of oxygen that exists high in the atmosphere
the ozone layer
There is probably no child who hasn't heard about the holes in the ozone layer or the greenhouse effect.
the speed at which someone or something moves or does something
a slow/fast pace
I don't like the pace of modern life.
These changes seem to be happening at too fast a pace.
I am living at a much faster pace.
to move or develop at the same speed as someone or something else
We have to keep pace with the changing times.
It was first published a century ago and what amazes people most is that it keeps pace with the development of the country without leaving out references to our history and tradition.
to be careful not to do something too quickly so that you do not get too tired to finish it
You must learn to pace yourself if you want to win.
When people are so old, they begin to pace themselves with some difficulties.
to walk around because you are worried or excited about something
He kept pacing up and down, glancing at his watch.
He was pacing up and down the entrance hall when finally he caught a glimpse of a person disappearing round a corner.
to put your things into bags, boxes, etc. when you are going on holiday or leaving the place where you live
We're leaving early tomorrow morning, so you'd better pack tonight.
I haven't packed my clothes yet.
She packed a small suitcase for the weekend.
These books need to be packed in/into boxes.
That day I picked up my tickets to India and came back home to pack my things, and of course I used my new suitcase.
a set of products or other things that are wrapped up together
The information pack consists of a brochure and a map.
I bought a large pack of tissues.
a group of animals that live together, especially those of the dog family
a pack of wolves
We were like a pack of wolves, only puppies at the time though.
a parcel
The postman has just delivered a package for you.
The package was wrapped in plain brown paper.
It was a call from the post office saying that the package he was waiting for had arrived.
a related group of things when they are offered together as a single unit
The computer comes with a software package.
This ski package includes flights, hotel accommodation, and a six-day lift pass.
Lastly, I need to know if all meals are included in your package.
very crowded
The hall was packed.
The bus was packed with schoolchildren.
If you want to meet and photograph the local people, the place to go is the Wednesday market. It is always packed with farmers, children, older people and so on.
a small paper or cardboard container that contains several of the same thing
a packet of cereal/biscuits/crisps
a packet of chewing gum/cigarettes
How many seeds are there in a packet?
He bought a packet of pop-corn.
an agreement between two people or groups
We have a pact never to talk about each other.
It became clear we had made a pact of silence.
a piece of paper in a book, magazine, etc., or one side of a piece of paper
Now turn to page 17 in your course book.
For details on how to enter the competition, see page 134.
The article appeared on the front page of the Guardian.
It has 1095 pages and it is very big.
a part of a website that can be read on a computer screen
I printed off a page about leg exercises.
The information is on an internet page, the site is www.art.com. For more information - visit the page.
an unpleasant physical feeling caused by an injury or illness
chest/stomach pains
Are you in pain?
He's been suffering various aches and pains for years.
I have a back pain and I couldn't sleep last night.
sadness or mental suffering caused by an unpleasant event
I can't describe the pain I suffered when he died.
The parents are still in great pain over the death of their child.
He had caused me so much pain that I was unable to forgive him anymore.
to be annoying
Having to keep the bikes in the house is such a pain.
My sister was being a real pain.
It was really a pain to pay that much for only a box of metal and a screen, but I think it is really going to help me.
to be annoying
My brother can be a real pain in the neck sometimes.
He's adorable although sometimes he can really be a pain in the neck (don't tell him I wrote this.)
a sudden, short, strong pain
I felt a sharp pain in my leg.
All that Tom remembered afterwards was the loud noise of the braking tyres, a sharp pain in his legs and then darkness.
causing physical pain
A painful injury forced her to withdraw from the game.
One of my teeth is very painful.
making you feel sad or upset
The old photograph brought back painful memories.
You know, I went through this painful decision just a few months ago, when I started working for a new company that pays me more, but gives me less time for my hobbies.
a coloured liquid that you put on a surface such as a wall to decorate it, or that you use to produce a picture
a tin of paint
There were so many paints to choose from that I couldn't decide which to buy.
I'm going to use orange paint to paint my bedroom.
to produce a picture of something or someone using paint
All these pictures were painted by local artists.
I like to paint so my favourite subject is art.
to cover a surface with paint in order to decorate it
We've painted the bedroom blue.
I've been painting all morning.
I'll need to paint over these dirty marks on the wall.
I want your help to paint my room.
someone who paints pictures
We are studying 19th century French painters.
We have to bring information about some painters, such as Velazquez or Picasso.
a picture that someone has painted
a painting by Caravaggio
The walls are covered with oil paintings.
There are beautiful paintings painted by famous Iranian painters.
the activity of painting pictures or painting surfaces
We were taught painting and drawing at art college.
When we bought the house, we had to do a lot of painting and redecorating.
I like reading, painting, and I like swimming too.
two people who are doing something together
I'd like you to do this exercise in pairs.
We do dialogues in pairs or between other students.
two things that look the same and that are used together
a pair of shoes/gloves
I can't find a matching pair of socks.
I got a pair of earrings from my parents.
something that is made of two parts that are joined together
a pair of scissors/glasses
a pair of jeans
He packed two pairs of trousers and four shirts.
Don't forget to bring an old T-shirt and a pair of jeans.
a very large building where a king, queen or president lives
a royal/presidential palace
Buckingham Palace
I know some places in London like Big Ben and Buckingham Palace.
light blue/green/yellow, etc.
She wore a pale blue hat.
Dear Robbie, I'm going to paint my bedroom pale pink and blue.
If your face is pale, it has less colour than usual because you are ill or frightened.
You're looking pale - do you feel ill?
Her face was pale and she was feeling that something would go wrong.
a palm tree
They sat beneath a palm tree.
Santorini was a picturesque island, with many rural areas, sensational deserted beaches with palm trees.
the inside surface of your hand
I cut the palm of my hand on the rock.
When the concert was over, everybody in the audience was on their feet clapping (until their palms were sweaty) and asking for an encore.
a round, metal container with a handle and usually a lid, that is used for cooking food in
Heat the milk in a small pan.
This dishwasher even washes pots and pans.
At this restaurant, you cook the food in the pan by yourself.
a thin, flat food made from flour, milk, and egg mixed together and cooked in a pan
We had pancakes with lemon.
You can't come to Holland without trying the Dutch pancakes, which are much better than the English ones.
a group of people who are chosen to discuss something or make a decision about something
a panel of experts
We can justify our opinion about the quality by referring to the extremely varied and constructive social programme, which is also organised by a panel of experts, sociologists and psychologists.
a flat, rectangular piece of wood, metal, etc. that forms the surface of a door, wall, etc.
The walls were made from wooden panels.
The glass roof provides excellent lighting, and the wood panels on the walls certainly contribute to the cosy atmosphere.
a sudden, strong feeling of worry or fear that makes you unable to think or behave calmly
a state of panic
Panic spread through the crowd as the wind and rain grew worse.
Carmel was in a panic about her exam.
He got in(to) a panic that he would forget his lines on stage.
All the people in the church thought it would be a perfect wedding ceremony, but there were two things missing: the bride and the bridegroom! After this was realised, there was panic!
to suddenly feel so worried or frightened that you cannot think or behave calmly, or to make someone feel this way
Don't panic! We've got plenty of time.
The sound of gunfire panicked the crowd.
The boss always panics over/about the budget every month.
David started thinking that a thief may have come into their house. "Don't panic", he told his wife.
underwear that covers the bottom
Make sure you bring a clean pair of pants.
Every day I went to buy different pants, shoes, shirts and all the clothes the baby needs.
thin, flat material used for writing or drawing on, covering things in, etc.
a piece/sheet of paper
She works on paper because she hates computers.
The teacher will give us paper so don't worry!
part of an examination
Candidates must answer two questions from each paper.
On my first day, he gave us a past examination paper.
a newspaper
a daily/weekly/local/national paper
The photo was on the front page of all the papers.
Hey Jo, Yesterday I saw an advertisement for a job in a local paper: it said that if you like pets, you can become a dog-sitter for three days a week.
a piece of writing about a particular subject
She's just published a paper on bilingualism.
Being a psychologist, I am currently writing a paper about work patterns, and I was therefore particularly interested in the comments made by the students.
the part of a job that involves producing reports, writing letters, organizing information, etc.
Many office jobs involve a lot of unnecessary paperwork.
As I am good at paperwork, I think it would be great if I could help you in the office.
a large piece of special cloth used to cause someone or something it is attached to drop slowly and safely from an aircraft to the ground
He used a parachute to jump to safety.
Those minutes, up in the air, feeling the wind in my face, were fantastic... and then I was terrified when I couldn't open the parachute!
a line of people or vehicles that moves through a public place as a way of celebrating an occasion
a victory parade
The festival starts with a huge opening parade.
a typical example or model of something
Career women are establishing a new paradigm of work and family life.
Science is supposed to be a rational, factual matter, but especially in this field when you express a view or do research into topics which go against the ruling paradigm, it's difficult.
a perfect place or situation
a tropical paradise
a shoppers' paradise
Our online-catalogue is a true shopping paradise.
a situation that seems very strange or impossible because of two opposite qualities or facts
It's a curious paradox that drinking a lot of water can make you feel thirsty.
They usually have less money and more time to spend their money in. This is a paradox.
seeming very strange or impossible because of two opposite qualities or facts
a paradoxical position/situation
Women are entering the labour market and, paradoxical though it may seem, they still are, in many cases, in charge of the house.
a part of a text that usually contains several sentences and begins on a new line
Organise your essay in clear paragraphs.
I made many mistakes when I read the paragraph.
similar and happening at the same time
Parallel experiments are being conducted in both countries.
The diary was a dimensional portal to a parallel world he called Wonderland.
a similarity
There are a number of parallels between our two situations.
People are drawing parallels between the two cases.
It magnificently establishes a parallel between the tragic demise of an outstanding Ibo man named Okonkwo and the cultural as well as religious downfall of his entire clan and generally the disintegration of African tribal life.
more important than anything else
Safety, of course, is paramount.
Communication is of paramount importance.
The attitudes towards creating their own styles differ - some perceive it simply as a matter of taste, for others this visual reflection of personality is of paramount importance.
something that is covered in paper so that it can be sent by post
send/receive/deliver a parcel
The parcel was wrapped in plain brown paper.
A week later, she received a parcel.
If something is part and parcel of an experience, it is a necessary part of that experience and cannot be avoided.
Stress is part and parcel of the job.
This is true to a certain extent as food is often part and parcel of traditional rituals.
used to politely ask someone to repeat something they have said because you have not heard it
"You'll need an umbrella." - "Pardon?" - "I said you'll need an umbrella."
your mother or father
I'm going to meet Richard's parents for the first time this weekend.
I like this place because my parents live there.
a large area of grass and trees in a city or town, where people can walk and enjoy themselves
Central Park
Hyde Park
We watched the joggers in the park.
The park is near my house.
to leave a vehicle in a particular place for a period of time
Where have you parked?
You can park your car over there.
On the way to the hospital, I decided to buy a present so I parked my car and bought some yellow flowers.
leaving a vehicle in a particular place for a period of time
a parking place/space
free/underground parking
You can't find a parking place when you need one and cars are a problem because of the pollution.
in some countries, a group of people who make the laws for the country
On Tuesday the country's parliament voted to establish its own army.
She was elected to Parliament in 1997.
a tropical bird with a curved beak and colourful feathers that can be taught to copy what people say
We saw parrots flying wild in the jungle.
Send my regards to your family and to your lovely parrot too.
a piece which combines with other pieces to form the whole of something
Which part of Buenos Aires do you live in?
They learn about the different parts of the body.
Fresh fruit and vegetables are an important part of a healthy diet.
It's the most beautiful part of Poland.
some but not all of a thing
Elsa spent part of the day shopping.
Part of the problem is their lack of money.
I studied Swedish as part of my degree.
It's all part of growing up.
A computer is part of your life.
a person in a film or play
He plays the part of the father in the film version.
I think the movie is really funny and one of my favourite actors plays the main part.
to be involved in an activity with other people
She doesn't usually take part in any of the class activities.
Last month when we took part in a dance competition, I couldn't imagine that we were able to win, but we did.
to be one of the people or things that are involved in an event or situation
People forget to wash their hands and that plays a part in spreading colds and flu.
Technology plays an important part in this situation, because I don't think that adults are playing computer games for Batman or Spiderman, for example, but for the special effects and the graphics.
a piece of a machine or vehicle
aircraft parts
spare parts
We were lucky to have some spare parts with us and finally Tom managed to repair his car.
mostly or usually
I enjoyed it for the most part.
First of all, for the most part, people have to use computers in their jobs.
done or experienced by someone
This is a major sacrifice on the part of the unions.
The accident was caused by carelessness on the instructor's part.
It seems that international sports competitions have always tended to attract a great amount of interest on the part of the media and have consistently been popular with sports fans the world over.
partly
He is in part to blame for the accident.
Technology is in part to blame.
most of a period of time
It took the better part of the afternoon to put those shelves up.
Major sporting competitions have been around for the better part of 2500 years, ever since the original Olympic Games were held in ancient Greece.
If something is part and parcel of an experience, it is a necessary part of that experience and cannot be avoided.
Stress is part and parcel of the job.
This is true to a certain extent as food is often part and parcel of traditional rituals.
If two sides of something part, they become separated, and if you part them, you make them separate.
Slowly her lips parted and she smiled.
There we were, three rather dishevelled young men with a stench that parted a path for us like Moses did the Red Sea.
If two people part, or if one person parts from another, they leave each other.
That summer, after six years of marriage, we parted.
It was on my seventeenth birthday that he gave me a little blue and shimmering box, but said I couldn't open it until the day we parted.
not complete
The general has ordered a partial withdrawal of troops from the area.
In conclusion, I am very disappointed and therefore, I believe that I am entitled to a partial refund.
not completely
partially cooked
Building a parking area outside the city centre would partially solve this problem.
someone who is involved in an activity
All participants finishing the race will receive a medal.
I was one of the participants who helped a charity organization to raise money for the local hospital.
to take part in or become involved in an activity
She never participates in any of our discussions, does she?
So, all the students can participate in different activities.
a very small piece of something
particles of dust
They got their hands on some anthrax bacteria, grew them in petri dishes and with all her knowledge in biology managed to make anthrax spores. Her friends ground the clumps of spores into fine particles.
especially
What in particular did you like about the last apartment that we saw?
Are you looking for anything in particular?
However, I like reading magazines too, in particular those about Hollywood gossip or fashion.
special, or this and not any other
She wanted a particular type of olive oil.
Is there any particular restaurant you'd like to go to?
He wouldn't take just any book - he had to have this particular one!
"Why did you ask?" "Oh, no particular reason, just making conversation."
Are you a fan of a particular team?
choosing things carefully and not easily satisfied, or making sure that things are exactly as you want them to be
Teenagers are very particular about the clothes they'll wear.
When I chose you I was very particular about the quality of the service you offer and you guaranteed professional service.
especially, or more than usual
Your ideas are particularly helpful.
She didn't seem particularly interested.
"Was the food good?" "Not particularly."
I particularly enjoyed swimming in your new swimming pool.
to some extent, but not completely
The house is partly owned by her father.
He was partly responsible for the error.
I suggest you spend your time partly in the countryside and partly in a city.
someone that you do something with, for example playing sports, dancing, or working in class
Now discuss your ideas with your partner.
I was Andy's partner for the tennis tournament.
He is my best partner when we are playing games on the internet.
someone who you live with and have a sexual relationship with
Partners are not invited to the office party.
Mike had been my partner for 3 years.
one of two or more people who own a business
junior/senior partner
My business partner handles international sales.
Don't spend the evenings with your business partners, but with your women, children and friends.
when two people or organizations work together to achieve something
She's gone into partnership with someone she used to work with.
I really need the money you're offering, mainly to set up that kindergarten school I've told you about, where I would work in partnership with a friend.
If you work part-time or do part-time work, you work for only some of the day or the week.
a part-time job
He works part-time as a waiter.
I can't afford to buy it so I'll look for a part-time job.
a social event where people enjoy themselves by talking, eating, drinking, and dancing
a birthday party
We're having a party to celebrate Jack's new job.
Peter gives/throws really wild parties.
I have the space to invite my friends to a party.
an organization of people who share the same political beliefs and try to win elections
a political party
the Green Party
The Labour Party has/have just elected a new leader.
He was elected as party leader in 2001.
They contacted party members from across the nation to ask for their support.
He organised a political party called "Kuo Min Tang of China" and started his revolution to overthrow the Chinese monarchy.
to succeed in a test or examination
I've passed my driving test!
Theo passed FCE at the age of 14.
I hope you pass the exam.
to go past something or someone
I passed him on the stairs this morning.
Cars kept passing us on the motorway.
If you pass a supermarket on the way back, could you get me some milk?
I started to cross the street and then a car passed.
to go in a particular direction
A plane passed over our heads.
We pass through your village on our way home.
Then we passed through the quiet countryside.
to give something to someone
Could you pass the salt, please?
Gerald passed me the note./Gerald passed the note to me.
For me to cover the work, can you pass it to my friend Jittanun.
If a period of time passes, it happens.
Four years have passed since that day.
Time seems to pass (by) so slowly when you're bored.
Five minutes passed and he didn't come, so I decided to go back inside.
to spend time doing something
We passed the time reading and swimming.
What's more, I would have to read to pass the time!
to officially approve of something and make it into a law or rule
The government passed a law to restrict the sale of guns.
I hope the government will pass a law which could control all these sort of things.
If a feeling passes, it goes away.
I know he's angry now but it'll pass.
My soul and my mind are frozen. I know that will pass.
to be more than a particular level
Donations have passed the one million mark.
in sports, to throw or kick a ball to someone else
Edwards passes to Brinkworth.
Worth passed the ball to Earvin "Magic" Johnson, and with two players disturbing him, he shot a three-pointer that went in nicely.
an official document or ticket that allows you to do something
a bus/rail pass
a boarding pass
You can buy a one-day bus pass and you could visit many monuments and picturesque places.
a successful result in an exam
A pass in this exam is above 60%.
in sports, when you throw or kick a ball to someone else
That was a great pass!
a long, narrow space that connects one room or place to another
The bathroom's on the right at the end of the passage.
There's a passage to the side of the house, leading to the garden.
We saw a big house but it was old and locked. We found a secret passage between the trees and we got inside.
a short part of a book, speech, or piece of music
Several passages from the book were printed in a national newspaper before it was published.
She would read a passage for us every night before we fell asleep.
the movement or progress from one stage or place to another
It's a difficult passage from boyhood to manhood.
Work has always been a fundamental question in the life of man since the iron-age, it marks the passage from youth to adulthood and for most of us it can be a turning point.
someone who is travelling in a vehicle but is not controlling it
airline/rail/train/car passengers
We asked some other passengers but nobody had seen our suitcases.
a very powerful feeling, for example of sexual attraction, love, hate, anger or other emotion
She saw the passion in his eyes.
Football arouses a lot of passion in fans.
Politics and philosophy were his lifelong passions.
Surfing is my passion.
when you like something very much
a passion for football
I always had a passion for writing and for 3 years I wrote many articles in my school magazine.
having very strong feelings or emotions
a passionate speech
a passionate kiss
The child's mother made a passionate appeal for help.
Joe is passionate about baseball.
I wrote a passionate article about how to protect our environment.
in a way that shows strong feelings or emotions
I walked into the room and found them arguing passionately.
Ann has always believed passionately in women's rights.
We met in our favourite pub, we kissed each other passionately like the first time, and then we sat down.
the passive form of a verb
When changed into the passive, 'The dog chased the cat' becomes 'The cat was chased by the dog'.
We were studying English grammar, the verbs, the conditionals, the passive and the active, etc. That was the first part, of the class.
A passive verb or sentence is one in which the subject does not do or cause the action but is affected by it.
"He was released from prison." is a passive sentence.
letting things happen to you and not taking action
Women at that time were expected to be passive.
Television provides a passive form of entertainment and so just watching it is much easier than reading books which needs concentration.
an official document, often a small book, that you need to enter or leave a country
passport control
a passport photo
Many refugees have arrived at the border without passports.
He was a German, travelling on a Swiss passport.
I have left my passport in the living room.
something that allows you to achieve something else
Education is a passport to a better life.
a secret word that allows you to do something, such as use your computer
Key in your password.
It wasn't me, it was my brother who stole my password.
used to say what the time is when it is a particular number of minutes after an hour
It's 5/10/a quarter/20/25/half past three.
I've got to leave at twenty past or I'll miss that train.
The class started the 2nd of June at half past five.
in or to a position that is further than a particular point
I live on Station Road, just past the post office.
Three boys went past us on mountain bikes.
Was that Peter who just jogged past in those bright pink shorts?
Turn right past the store and turn left ok?
above a particular age or further than a particular point
This meat is past its sell-by date.
She's past the age where she needs a babysitter.
having happened or existed before now
past relationships
I know this from past experience.
I like the place because it has nice people, music and all sorts of things about past events.
used to refer to a period of time before and until the present
I've spent the past ten years in and out of jobs.
It's been raining for the past three days.
He was the fifth climber to die on these mountains over the past two days.
Dear Anna, I've just arrived home and couldn't wait to write you to thank you for being so nice, trusting and kind lending me your flat for the past week.
the form of the verb which is used to show what happened in the past
The past of 'change' is 'changed'.
the time before the present and all the things that happened then
the distant/recent past
In the past, people would bathe once a month.
In the past, we were best friends.
all of the things that someone has done in their life
I knew nothing about his past.
After the film, we went to a restaurant called Adriano, and as the weather was cool, we had a glass of wine and started asking about each other's past.
a food that is made from flour, water and sometimes eggs, and comes in many different shapes
Spaghetti, lasagne, ravioli and cannelloni are all types of pasta.
My favourite food is pasta.
an activity that you enjoy doing when you are not working
Shopping is one of her favourite pastimes.
Going to concerts and visiting record shops have always been my favourite pastime.
a mixture of flour, fat, and water that is cooked, usually used to cover or contain other food
I made some pastry for the pie.
The most popular sweet dish is called "Apfelstrudel", which is a bit of potato pastry filled with apples and nuts.
a small cake that is made with pastry
We had coffee and pastries.
They don't want to miss their sweet pastries and "Sacher tortes", which Austria is famous for.
to touch a person or animal with a flat hand in a gentle, friendly way
She stopped to pat the dog.
All my mother's friends would come to our house, pat me on the head and say smiling: "Isn't she precious?!"
a small area that is different from the area around it
a bald patch
There are icy patches on the road.
All my senses were sharpened, I could clearly see the tired smile of the bass-guitarist and wet patches on his T-shirt.
a piece of material that you use to cover a hole in your clothes or in other material
He had leather patches sewn on the elbows of his jacket.
And my mother cherishes her family heirloom handed down for generations - it's a quilt with sewn patches on it, representing what each of the women's strongest passion was. My mother sewed on her patch presenting her childhood fascination of The Beatles.
a small area of land used for a particular purpose
a cabbage/vegetable patch
My father had a big allotment with different vegetables like turnips, beet, etc., etc. At my house there was also a vegetable patch.
a difficult time
I think their marriage is going through a bad patch.
We all went through a rough patch when my mother turned out to have cancer.
to repair a hole in a piece of clothing or other material by sewing a piece of material over it
to patch your trousers
There were also clothes to be mended and patched, socks to be darned.
a long, narrow track between one place and another
a garden path
This is the path to the cliffs.
They followed the path until they came to a gate.
Follow it and you'll see a path which goes to the Park.
a set of actions over a period of time, especially ones which lead to a goal or result
a career path
The path to success has many difficulties.
Maybe you could talk about your latest book "Murder on Avenue B" or about your path to fame.
the direction that a person or vehicle moves in
a flight path
As you obviously cannot change the flight path towards or away from the airfield then we have to take alternative action.
to meet someone, especially by accident
Mike has moved away and I doubt he'll ever cross my path again.
We are all socialised by our peers, family and other people who cross our path at one time or another.
showing no skill, effort, or bravery
He made a rather pathetic attempt to apologize.
You're too frightened to speak to her? Come on, that's pathetic!
It was a pathetic performance and the team lost badly.
Sometimes it seems to me that the whole world has a book of platitudes, which everybody uses in order to communicate. I find it rather pathetic.
sad and weak
Four times the pathetic little creature fell to the ground.
The refugees were a pathetic sight - starving, frightened and cold.
On Saturday morning, I see them sleeping rough under the bridges, a pathetic sight.
the quality of being able to stay calm and not get angry, especially when something takes a long time
You have to have such a lot of patience when you're dealing with kids.
In the end, I lost my patience and shouted at her.
He's a good teacher, but he doesn't have much patience with the slower pupils.
I have patience with animals and care for them with love.
someone who is being treated by a doctor, nurse, etc.
a cancer patient
I'm a patient of Dr Stephens, please could I make an appointment to see her?
Another good programme is a serial called "House", which is about an eccentric doctor who has the incredible flair of knowing which disease patients have without examining them.
having patience
Dinner will be ready in half an hour - just be patient!
Be patient with her - she's very young.
She is very patient with us and she tries to explain everything in detail for better understanding.
in a patient way
There was a queue of people waiting patiently for the bus to arrive.
She made her way slowly to the waiting room and patiently waited for the train to arrive.
a design of lines, shapes, colours, etc.
The carpet was very old and had an unusual pattern.
In my country now leggings are the new fashion. Some wear ones with stripes, or the black ones also have a zebra pattern.
a particular way that something is often done or repeated
The pattern of family life has been changing over recent years.
Many behaviour(al) patterns have been identified in this study of chimpanzees.
If the alarm-clock had worked, everything would have followed its usual pattern but this time I woke up too late.
a drawing, shape or set of instructions that helps you to make something
a dress/knitting pattern
Approximately three years ago I started to sew my own clothes. I always buy a pattern and follow every instruction given.
a short period in which something such as a sound or an activity is stopped before starting again
There will be a brief pause in the concert while the piano is moved into place.
After a long, awkward pause someone asked a question.
She spoke for three quarters of an hour without a pause.
I would like to correct the journalist by saying to him that RADIANT played for 1 hour without any pause.
to stop doing something for a short time
He paused for a moment.
She paused to get her breath back and then carried on jogging.
After a while, she pulled herself together and paused for a minute.
to make a CD, DVD, etc. stop for a short time by pressing a button
Can you pause the film there, please?
I paused the video I was watching, wondering what that knocking sound was.
a path by the side of a road that people walk on
The jar slipped from my hand and smashed on the pavement.
I called my friends and asked them if they had found my scarf. Fortunaately they had seen my scarf on the pavement outside the disco.
the foot of an animal that has claws or nails, such as a cat, dog or bear
I found paw prints in the kitchen.
My cat is only 2 years old. She is very beautiful with her long bushy tail and soft paws.
to give money to someone because you are buying something from them, or because you owe them money
Helena paid for the meal.
He paid £200 for the tickets.
Would you prefer to pay by cash or card?
Did you pay the telephone bill?
I don't have to pay. It's free.
to give someone money for the work that they do
She gets paid twice a month.
Accountancy may be boring but at least it pays well.
Most of these women are very poorly paid and work in terrible conditions.
Those are the first things I am going to buy when I get paid.
to watch, listen to, or think about something carefully
You weren't paying attention to what I was saying.
Larry is a very distracted boy. Everybody says that he should pay attention to what he is doing.
to visit a person or place, usually for a short time
We thought we'd pay Sam a visit while we were in Oxford.
P.S: Wherever you decide to go, do not fail to pay me a visit!
to tell someone that you admire something about them
He paid her several compliments about her painting.
His companions always pay him compliments on his piano playing.
to suffer because of something bad you have done
He's certainly paying for his mistakes.
He hurried back to the castle and was so disgusted with her that he had her locked forever in a cell, to pay for what she had done.
to accept the unpleasant results of what you have done
If you abuse your body now, you'll pay the price when you're older.
When all is said and done, do contemporary sports events pose an advantage to athletes pursuing their physical excellence? I would dare to say no, unless he, or increasingly she, is prepared to pay the price in becoming a ready-made product for public consumption.
to thank someone or say that you admire someone or something, especially in public
He paid tribute to his former teacher.
Although it may not seem so, this is just a way of paying tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, since he always encouraged people to return to their traditions and customs.
the money you receive for doing a job
Have you had a pay rise recently?
It's a nice job but the pay is appalling.
The pay is good, but have you got a car to get everywhere?
describes something to be paid
Rent is payable monthly.
We were informed by you that there would be nothing extra to be paid but in fact several admission fees were payable.
If a cheque is payable to a person, that person's name is written on the cheque and the money will be paid to them.
Cheques should be made payable to 'Express Enterprises'.
Please make your cheque payable to "Mr. C. ZHANG". I am looking forward to receiving your answer and the cheque I claimed before the end of this month.
an amount of money paid
We need a deposit of £165 followed by twelve monthly payments of £60.
When is the first payment due?
Now people can buy or sell things from their home. They don't have to go to the bank, if they want to make a payment.
the act of paying
They will accept payment by credit card.
Usually we ask for payment on receipt of the goods.
Finally, we employees have been facing delays on payment of our wages.
ABBREVIATION FOR personal computer
The price of PCs has been tumbling recently.
I want to sell my old PC. It's 2 years old.
a round green seed, several of which grow in a pod, eaten as a vegetable
frozen/dried peas
pea soup
I had a fish meal with some vegetables: peas, beans, carrots and lettuce.
calm and quiet
You'll need peace and quiet to study.
He says he's at peace when he's walking in the mountains.
Go away and leave us to finish our dinner in peace.
There'll be no peace until she gets what she wants.
I saw a lot of primitive people who live in peace with the rainforest.
when there is no war, violence or arguing
peace talks
a peace agreement
Now that the war is over may there be lasting peace between our nations.
She's very good at keeping (the) peace within the family.
World peace was being threatened by the Gulf War, major countries were taking sides and preparing to fight each other, millions of lives were in danger but no one seemed to care enough.
a feeling that you do not need to worry about anything
We lock our doors and windows at night for peace of mind.
After all, successfully earning your living guarantees peace of mind.
quiet and calm
a peaceful afternoon/place
This village is in a peaceful location with a sandy beach.
without violence
a peaceful demonstration/protest
Leipzig is well-known in the world because of the beginning of the peaceful revolution in 1989 in Germany.
in a peaceful way
He died peacefully at home.
There were a beautiful bride and a handsome bridegroom who were sleeping peacefully with smiles on their faces.
a round fruit with sweet yellow flesh that has a lot of juice, a slightly furry red and yellow skin and a large seed in its centre
Would you like peaches and cream for dessert?
I enjoy eating cool summer fruit, such as melon, water-melon, peaches and apricots.
the top of a mountain, or the mountain itself
snow-covered peaks
It is one of the most difficult peaks to climb.
You can walk or ride a horse to reach the peak.
the highest level or value of something
peak travel times
Holiday flights reach a peak during August.
Here we see an athlete at the peak of her fitness and career.
The situation gets worse, especially during peak hours, when people go to work or school and when they return home.
an oval-shaped nut with a thin brown shell
peanut oil
salted/dry-roast(ed) peanuts
I went to the supermarket where I bought some peanuts, cheese dip and a bottle of soda.
an oval-shaped, pale green or yellow fruit
We had a delicious dessert of pears in cider.
I want to buy melons, tomatoes, apples and pears.
a poor person who works on the land, usually in a poor country
a peasant farmer
Monteiro made a lot of trips to see and speak with fishermen and peasants.
unusual and strange, sometimes in an unpleasant way
She has the most peculiar ideas.
What a peculiar smell!
It's peculiar that they didn't tell us they were going away.
The video on road accidents made me feel rather peculiar.
Yesterday I had a birthday and my friend Pat suggested that I should visit a fortune-teller. We went along to visit the most peculiar woman I have ever met in my life.
belonging to or relating to a particular person or thing
Her accent is peculiar to the region.
The warm atmosphere obliterated every trace of shyness peculiar to the somewhat inhibited Swedes.
a part of a machine that you press with your foot to operate or move the machine
the brake pedal
This sewing machine is operated by a foot pedal.
He stood up on the pedals of his bike to get extra power as he cycled up the hill.
It has a comfortable seat, big pedals and a wonderful inscription "RIDER".
a person who is walking and not travelling in a vehicle
a pedestrian crossing
Many streets are reserved for cyclists and pedestrians.
There aren't cars in the city, because the roads are only for pedestrians.
to remove the skin of fruit and vegetables
Peel and chop the onions.
We are a family of four and everybody peels vegetables, does the washing-up and makes coffee.
If a layer or covering peels, it slowly comes off, and if you peel a layer or covering, you remove it slowly and carefully.
The posters were peeling away from the damp walls.
Peel off the backing strip and press the label down firmly.
The building that housed the school was run down, with paint peeling off the walls and all the furniture like chairs and tables falling apart.
to watch carefully for someone or something
Keep your eyes peeled, he should be here any minute.
Ever since, I try to keep my eyes peeled for anything similar.
to look at something for a short time, often when you do not want other people to see you
She peeped at them through the fence.
Once I peeped through the keyhole and I could see him crying in pain over my mother's photograph.
someone who is the same age, or who has the same social position or abilities as other members of a group
Most teenagers want to be accepted by their peers.
It could be a little boring, especially when you are young and all you want is to be with your peers, stay out all night, get back early in the morning and sleep until afternoon.
to look carefully or with difficulty
She peered at me over her glasses.
Slightly opening the door, she peered inside: a small shaft of moonlight passing through the curtain lit the small room: there was nobody inside, and the phone on the old desk was silent.
the influence of people who are of a similar age or in a similar situation to you
When it comes to fashion, peer pressure can be intense.
To sum up, although young people face many problems and restrictions, such as peer pressure, excessive homework and their parents' prohibitions, they overcome all the barriers and enjoy their life exploiting to the full all the advantages of their age and character.
a long, thin object that you use to write or draw in ink
Don't write in pen, or you won't be able to rub out any mistakes you make.
We have to bring with us a notebook, a pen and a pencil.
a punishment for doing something that is against a law or rule
The violation carries a penalty of up to three years in prison.
Currently, ticket holders pay a penalty equal to 25% of the ticket price when they change their flight plans.
Although, the government can increase the penalties for neglectful driving. In this regard, police officers are already paying more attention to drunk drivers.
an advantage given in some sports to a team or player when the opposing team or player breaks a rule
The referee awarded a penalty kick.
After twenty more minutes of playing or I should say fighting, none of us could score and finally the match had to be decided by penalties.
a plural form of 'penny'; a coin or unit of money with a value of one hundredth of a pound. We also say 'one pence' for a single penny.
The crisps are fifty pence.
The price is five pounds twenty five pence.
a long, thin, wooden object with a black or coloured point that you write or draw with
a box of coloured pencils
pens and pencils
a pencil sharpener
You'd better sharpen that pencil.
Write your comments in the margin of the report in pencil.
You must bring a pencil with you.
someone who you write to regularly but have never met
When I was young, I had a penfriend in Jamaica.
I'd like a penfriend in Australia.
a large, black and white sea bird that swims and cannot fly
A row of penguins stood at the water's edge.
It's wonderful, you can see the whales swimming in the sea, the sea lions lying on the beach and the penguins.
a coin or unit of money with a value of one hundredth of a pound
Could you lend me 50 pence/50p?
I found a ten/twenty/fifty pence piece on the ground.
It was a two penny coin.
a sum of money paid regularly by the government or a private company to a person who has stopped working because they are old or ill
a pension plan
a state/private pension
He won't be able to draw his pension until he's 65.
Moreover, you'll have to pay attention to your health, if you don't want to die before you get your pension.
a person who is receiving a pension
Many pensioners are worried about rises in heating costs.
Probably the era of soap operas will end when there are no more housewives and pensioners to watch them.
more than one person
Many people never take any exercise.
We've invited thirty people to our party.
I like this place because there are many shops around and many people.
all the ordinary people in a country
The rebels have gained the support of the people.
John Paul II is one of the few popes - if not the only one - to have actually been in contact with the people.
a black, grey, white or red powder produced by crushing dry peppercorns, which is used to give food a spicy flavour
freshly ground black pepper
salt and pepper
You put the chicken in the oven, but before you do that, you put salt and pepper or a piece of bacon on top of the chicken.
a hollow green, red or yellow vegetable
red peppers
I eat every kind of vegetable - carrots, green peppers...
for each
The meal will cost $20 per person.
The car was travelling at 70 miles per hour (70 mph).
There are more cafés per square mile here than anywhere else in the country.
It's two hours per lesson.
to think of something or someone in a particular way
The British are often perceived as being very formal.
However, travelling with parents or other family members is generally perceived as less exciting and interesting than travelling with friends.
to notice something that is not easy to notice
We perceived a faint light in the distance.
I could perceive a dim light through the shutters but immediately afterwards it disappeared.
for or out of every 100, shown by the symbol %
You got 20 percent of the answers right - that means one in every five.
Only 40% of people bothered to vote in the election.
I love colourful clothes and this skirt was in a sale so I just had to pay 30 per cent of the old price.
an amount of something, often expressed as a number out of 100
What percentage of women return to work after having a baby?
Interest rates have risen by two percentage points.
If "today's youngsters" are asked where they would like to have lunch, a high percentage of them will probably answer "McDonalds".
what you think or believe about someone or something
The public perception of him as a hero is surprising.
These photographs will affect people's perceptions of war.
Today's royalty is a lot less respected and the media influence of modern times has shaped and transformed much of our perception.
quick to notice or understand things
a perceptive writer
Both incidents show how perceptive Lucy is.
without fault, or as good as possible
a perfect day/evening
You have a perfect English accent.
The car is five years old but is in almost perfect condition.
Her performance was perfect.
I bought a mobile phone. It's perfect for me.
exactly right for someone or something
You'd be perfect for the job.
The weather's just perfect for a picnic.
The weather was perfect for the cycling holiday.
used to emphasize a noun
His suggestion makes perfect sense.
When the visit is a grandmother with whom you have nothing to talk about I don't think there is much you can do about it. But if you wake up in the morning and the first thing you see in front of you is the face of a perfect stranger with wrinkles all over the place staring at you with motherly eyes... what would be your first reaction? Yell, of course!
the tense of a verb that shows action that has happened in the past or before another time or event
the present/past perfect
In English, the perfect is formed with a form of the verb 'have' and the past participle of the verb - for example, "She has visited Mexico."
to make something as good as it can be
I've spent hours perfecting my speech.
Instead, it matters how far they get with perfecting their skills.
when someone or something is perfect
She strives for perfection in everything she does.
chicken legs cooked to perfection
Moreover, he is hard-working and always strives for perfection.
in a perfect way
The jacket fits perfectly, the skirt not so well.
They're perfectly suited.
I think black is your colour and they'll fit you perfectly!
used to emphasize the word that follows
To be perfectly honest, I don't care any more.
You know perfectly well what the matter is.
I made it perfectly clear to him what I meant.
I was perfectly happy on my own.
I told them I hadn't brought a map because I knew the way perfectly well.
to entertain people by acting, dancing, singing, playing music, etc.
She composes and performs her own music.
A major Hollywood star will be performing on stage tonight.
Later a band performs and everybody starts to dance and sing.
to do a job or a piece of work
Computers can perform a variety of tasks.
The operation will be performed next week.
Most of the students performed well in the exam.
The technology of computers can produce special effects in films and cartoons, it can also be used to perform some kinds of surgery.
acting, dancing, singing, or playing music to entertain people
a performance of Arthur Miller's play, 'The Crucible'
She gave a superb performance as Lady Macbeth.
I was sure that the legendary instrument that the great player used during his performances had to be very big, as the box is.
how successful someone or something is
The new suits help swimmers to improve their performance.
High-performance cars are the most expensive.
This was a very impressive performance by the young player, who scored 12 points within the first 10 minutes.
I do some exercises in order to improve my performance in the water.
someone who entertains people by acting, singing, dancing or playing music
He's a brilliant performer.
We are going to watch "Bodyguard", which has so many famous performers.
a liquid with a pleasant smell, usually made from oils taken from flowers or spices, which is often used on the skin
What perfume are you wearing?
She adores French perfume.
I got nice trousers, books and perfume.
used to show that something is possible or that you are not certain about something
He hasn't written to me recently - perhaps he's lost my address.
We plan to travel to Europe - to Spain or Italy perhaps.
What about Saturday or perhaps Friday?
a length of time
Her work means that she spends long periods away from home.
Unemployment in the first half of the year was 2% lower than in the same period last year.
The study will be carried out over a six-month period.
The house was built during the Elizabethan period.
Hi Jo, I've seen a restaurant is looking for a waitress during the period from June to August.
in school, a division of time in the day when a subject is taught
We have six periods of science a week.
After the period, when the bell rang, I stayed in the class to ask some questions and my new teacher gave me some explanations.
something special in addition to the money you are paid that you are given because of your job
Free child care for preschool children of employees was a popular perk.
The economy nowadays is so technologically driven it is common belief that having a job in the computer industry means high pay and perks.
lasting or continuing for a long time or forever
She is looking for a permanent place to stay.
Are you looking for a temporary or a permanent job?
The disease can cause permanent damage to the brain.
I am a permanent member of the Fear factor club.
always and forever
I seem to be permanently broke.
Michael and his family have settled permanently in Brazil.
Although I am not permanently employed, I found it very interesting to help skilled instructors teach other people to swim and surf.
when you allow someone to do something
She gave him permission immediately.
They even have to ask for permission before they go to the toilet.
Official permission has been granted for more building near the river.
The authorities have refused permission for the demonstration to take place.
Planning permission was refused for the hypermarket after a three-week inquiry.
My parents didn't give me permission to go but I really wanted to.
to allow something
Photography is not permitted inside the museum.
The prison authorities permit visiting only once a month.
The security system will not permit you to enter without the correct password.
My parents permitted me to go!
to make something possible
The match starts at 3 pm, weather permitting.
In my mind there is little to improve in this programme except increasing the amount of family accommodation and - budget permitting - the occasions for weekend trips.
an official document that allows you to do something
a work permit
You need a permit to park your car here.
I am able to start as soon as possible and due to my grandfather being Italian also have dual nationality, which means that I don't even need a work permit.
continued effort and determination
Hard work and perseverance do pay off in the end.
Would we be still living as our ancestors used to live if people like Einstein, Volta, Newton and Galileo had not had the perseverance and intelligence that allowed them to discover things such as the theory of relativity?
If an unpleasant feeling or situation persists, it continues to exist.
If symptoms persist, consult a doctor.
In my opinion her achievement is based on the fact that she did manage to alter the image of a handicapped person which persisted in many minds.
to continue to do something although it is annoying other people
He persists in calling me Jane, even though I've corrected him twice.
Most surprising perhaps is the fact that although many people are aware of the shortage of drinkable water, they persist in either leaving the tap running or just consume water when it is unnecessary, something that in my opinion is inexcusable.
when someone or something persists
He has been campaigning on road safety for years - you have to admire his persistence.
A reward for months of effort and persistence had at last arrived.
continuing to do something in a determined way
He can be very persistent when he wants something.
I learned how to make the most out of failure, how to be persistent in my efforts and strive for excellence.
a human being
He's a very dangerous person.
You're the only person I know at this party.
Who was the first person to swim the English Channel?
A meal at the restaurant costs about £35 per person.
She's a very good person. I really like my friends.
If you do something in person, you go somewhere to do it yourself.
You have to collect the document in person.
I am looking forward to meeting you in person.
relating to or belonging to a particular person
I can only speak from my personal experience.
This is a personal opinion/view and not that of the government.
Passengers are reminded to take all their personal belongings with them when they leave the plane.
The only personal belongings he took was a black leather suitcase.
designed for or used by one person
a personal computer/stereo
a personal loan
The activity that I like best is to surf the Web with a powerful personal computer.
relating to the private parts of someone's life, including their relationships or feelings
He has a few personal problems at the moment.
Do you mind if I ask you a personal question?
His resignation was apparently for personal rather than professional reasons.
We know very little about his personal life.
I wanted to see him and talk to him about some personal problems.
how clean a person's body, teeth, hair, etc. are
Her personal hygiene is not as good as it should be.
The ones that need medical services at home have hardly had anyone, and no one has helped them with personal hygiene.
the type of person you are, which is shown by the way you behave, feel and think
She has a very warm personality.
He is well qualified for the job, but he does lack personality.
I mean, when she dances, she transmits strength and a big personality.
a famous person
The show is hosted by a popular TV personality.
What is more, you could take part in the festival without paying for it and meet some famous personalities from the world of music.
used when you give your opinion
Personally (speaking), I think the show is going to be a great success.
Personally, I really like green spaghetti.
done by or affecting one person and not by someone else
These figures should be correct because I've checked them personally.
He believes that parents should be made personally responsible for their children's behaviour.
At the end of the concert, when it was after midnight and everyone had already left, the group came up to each of us (who helped out) and thanked us personally!
to think that someone is criticizing you or to feel that a failure or bad situation is your fault
You mustn't take everything so personally.
She tends to take things too personally, and sometimes she overreacts.
the people who work for an organization
military personnel
We also employ 10000 workers in 10 factories across the country and additional administrative personnel.
the way you think about something
Being unemployed has made me see things from a different perspective.
We have performed a class survey and interviewed Fordham residents, who see this issue from a different perspective.
when things are in perspective, you think about them in a sensible and realistic way, and understand how important or unimportant they really are
You must keep things in perspective - the overall situation isn't really that bad.
When you see pictures of their suffering, it puts your own problems in perspective.
I think it will enable me to see things more in perspective.
to make someone agree to do something by talking to them a lot about it
If she doesn't want to go, nothing you can say will persuade her.
I persuaded her (that) it was the right thing to do.
He is trying to persuade local and foreign businesses to invest in the project.
Using a bunch of bananas, the zoo-keeper persuaded the monkey back into its cage.
I had to persuade them to let me go and make enquiries.
to make someone believe that something is true
Their argument failed to persuade me.
It's no use trying to persuade him (that) you're innocent.
My friends persuaded me that everything was going well.
when you persuade someone
I'm sure she'll agree, she just needs a little gentle persuasion.
After a lot of persuasion I decided to take part in the Public Speaking.
able to make people agree to do something
It's a very persuasive argument.
The presentation and the enthusiasm of the representatives was very persuasive and appealing.
always believing that bad things are likely to happen
The tone of the meeting was very pessimistic.
The doctors are pessimistic about his chances of recovery.
In his book, the most important thing is his character. He has never been pessimistic, he has never hated his parents.
an animal that someone keeps in their home
They have several pets - a dog, two cats and a guinea pig.
my pet rabbit
I like this place because I have lots of friends there. The people, houses, pets - everything is very good.
extremely frightened
I'm petrified of spiders.
I was petrified as well as confused.
a liquid fuel used in cars
a petrol tank/pump
unleaded petrol
I'm a bit low on petrol.
There wasn't any petrol!
a place where you can buy petrol
Where's the nearest petrol station?
When you come into Evesham, look for High Street X, after that you can see a big yellow house, near the petrol station.
unimportant or not serious
petty details
petty crime
Most unemployed people often turn to petty crimes and sometimes big crimes such as robbery, prostitution and drug-trafficking.
someone who is trained to prepare or sell medicines
The pharmacist gave me some medicine.
a shop or part of a shop that prepares and sells medicines
You could try a hayfever remedy from the pharmacy.
Sometimes such a situation could happen when you need some food or something from the pharmacy.
a stage or period which is part of a longer period
The first phase of the project is likely to be completed by August.
We're entering a new phase in international relations.
When I was in my early teens I went through a phase of only wearing black.
Many people disagree about the best phase of a man's life but I definitely believe that the teenage years are the most beautiful of your life and I have many reasons for believing that!
extremely successful or showing great qualities or abilities
The film has been a phenomenal success.
When they opened in 1990, they had a huge car park which held up to 9,000 cars but due to its phenomenal success they had to build more multi-storey car parks to cope with the tidal wave of vehicles.
something that exists or happens, usually something unusual
storms, lightning, and other natural phenomena
Road rage seems to be a fairly recent phenomenon.
An unexpected phenomenon that someone called "drunkenness tourism" has appeared in the Mediterranean villages and towns.
someone who studies or writes about the meaning of life
Plato was a Greek philosopher.
He wasn't a teacher, he wasn't a philosopher, but he was a great artist.
relating to the study or writing of philosophy
a philosophical problem/question
Ralph started taking advice from Piggy and asking him philosophical questions.
accepting unpleasant situations in a calm and wise way
She seems fairly philosophical about failing her exam.
One of the traits that attracts me most in the Balinese is their philosophical attitude towards life and their strong belief in Hindu gods and spirits.
the study or writing of ideas about the meaning of life, or a particular set of ideas about the meaning of life
Descartes is considered by many to be the father of modern philosophy.
We have been enthusiastic students of history, literature and philosophy for three years now.
a way of thinking about what should be done in life
My philosophy has always been to give those with ability the chance to progress.
Brighton college has changed its philosophy considerably over the past decades.
a piece of electronic equipment that you use to talk to someone who is in another place
Just then, his mobile phone rang.
Could you answer the phone?
We speak on the/by phone about twice a week.
You had three phone calls this morning.
Will you excuse me? I've got to make a phone call.
If the phone lines are busy, please try again later.
I want to buy a new phone for my brother because I broke his in an accident.
to communicate with someone by phone
She phoned just after lunch.
He's phoned me (up) every day this week.
Please phone me and I will tell you more.
a picture produced using a camera
She took a lot of photos of the kids.
vacation/wedding photos
Sometimes I take photos of them and I feed these birds.
a copy of a document made with a machine which produces copies of documents using light and electricity
I made several photocopies of my CV and sent them to different companies.
As far as my level of English is concerned, I have obtained my Cambridge Examination and I enclose a photocopy of the certificate.
a picture produced using a camera
a colour/black-and-white photograph
My parents took a lot of photographs of us when we were small.
I love my mobile phone. It can play videos, music and take very good photographs.
to take a picture using a camera
I prefer photographing people rather than places.
MacKay was photographed leaving the building.
This city is not big as you know, so we don't have many interesting buildings to be photographed.
someone who takes photographs, especially someone whose job is to do this
a fashion photographer
Yesterday, my new boyfriend gave me a camera. I really liked it because I want to be a photographer one day.
the activity or job of taking photographs
She's doing an evening class in photography.
I'm writing to you because I decided to go on a photography course.
a phrase which consists of a verb in combination with a preposition or adverb or both, which has a different meaning from the meaning of its separate parts
'Look after', 'work out' and 'make up for' are all phrasal verbs.
At my first lesson, we talked together about our past experiences and we learnt some phrasal verbs too (which we really hate!)
a group of words that are used together, and which often have a particular meaning
Here are some phrases that may be useful in your essays.
A man dressed in black would ask me: "How many apples are there in the bedroom?" and I should answer with a scratch on the nose and the phrase: "Three and seven quarters sir."
related to the body
physical exercise/fitness/strength/disabilities
physical appearance
Eighty kilometres is a pretty long distance and there is a danger that our trip would turn out to be a gruelling experience because of physical exhaustion.
relating to real things that you can see and touch
a physical object
There was no physical evidence linking Jones to Shaw's murder.
In other words, books as physical objects represent memories of specific times of my life and occasionally I enjoy recalling them by reading (again) some passages of already read books.
in a way that relates to the body or someone's appearance
physically active/fit
Physically I find him very attractive.
The work is physically demanding.
Special holidays are available for physically disabled people.
Most people believe that team sports help children to become healthier, both mentally and physically, but there are those who have objections to this statement.
the scientific study of matter and energy and the effect that they have on each other
nuclear physics
a physics lab
I can't miss that class because it's a physics class and it's essential for me to go, because I think I can't study physics by myself.
a large musical instrument with a row of black and white keys which are pressed to play notes
We're buying a new piano.
I play the piano.
We all joined in the song, with Pat at the piano/on piano.
My hobby is playing the piano.
to choose something or someone
Pick a card from the pack.
She was picked for the Olympic team.
She was picked to play for the team.
In this restaurant, there are all types of pizza on a table and you can pick any pizza you want.
If you pick flowers or fruit, you take them off a plant or tree.
They were picking strawberries for twelve hours a day.
I picked some apples this morning.
Two weeks is quite a long time so I am planning to go cycling in the mountains, gather acorns, pick flowers, go hiking and watch the sun set.
to try to get back to an ordinary way of life after a difficult experience
After Ruth's death, Joe found it hard to pick up the pieces and carry on.
Now that I'm settled in my own country, picking up the pieces and trying to start a new life, I've decided that having a diary is not a bad idea after all.
a meal that you make and take with you somewhere to eat outside
If the weather's nice we could have a picnic in the park.
Why don't you take a picnic with you?
a picnic area/lunch/table
We sometimes go for a picnic.
a drawing, painting, or photograph of something or someone
Alex drew/painted a picture of my dog.
We took a picture of the children on their new bicycles.
I like my bedroom, because there are a lot of windows, two armchairs, a lamp next to the bed, a table under the window, and some pictures on the wall.
a film
Could this be the first animated film to win a best picture award?
Now I can buy the DVD "Star Trek - The Motion Picture".
an idea of what something is like
After watching the news, I had a clearer picture of what was happening.
The next day we will go round the area so you will have a general picture in your mind.
an image seen on a television or cinema screen
We can't get a clear picture.
Another important point for me is that things like listening to music or watching TV sounds better and the pictures on TV are being improved, because the machines are becoming better.
to explain to someone what is happening
Jim had no idea what was going on till I put him in the picture.
Tell him you are friends of mine. (I will put him in the picture!)
used to say that someone understands a situation
Oh right, I get the picture.
If you use a photograph though, you can be sure that everyone will get the picture (pun intended) and probably remember the person you're talking about next time they see him.
to imagine something in a particular way
The house isn't at all how I had pictured it.
Picture this: one house, one bathroom, one bedroom, approximately 100 cameras, 9 people from all possible walks of life and no contact with the world outside.
A picturesque place is attractive to look at.
the picturesque narrow streets of the old city
Poland is a really nice country, with many historical buildings and picturesque places.
a type of food made with meat, vegetables, or fruit covered in pastry and baked
Would you like some more apple pie?
a chicken and mushroom pie
I like apple pie and ice cream as a dessert.
a part that has come from something bigger
a piece of cake
She cut the tart into six pieces.
The bowl fell on the floor and smashed to pieces.
The bowl lay on the floor in pieces.
After that, we can go to drink a cup of coffee and eat a piece of cake.
a single object of a particular type
a piece of fruit
a piece of equipment/furniture
He handed me a piece of paper.
You must bring two or three pencils, a piece of paper, crayons and a pencil sharpener.
a single amount of a particular type of thing
I have an interesting piece of information/news for you.
She gave me a very useful piece of advice.
You can visit the churches, the ancient buildings, and some other interesting places. That's my piece of advice.
an example of artistic, written or musical work
a beautiful piece of music
an orchestral piece
There was an interesting piece on alternative medicine in the newspaper yesterday.
My favourite music is an instrumental piece of music by Vangelis.
to be very easy
The exam itself was a piece of cake.
The article was a piece of cake though I didn't expect to win.
If someone goes to pieces, they become so upset that they cannot control their feelings or think clearly.
He went to pieces when his mother died.
He was amazed at his ability to solve the problems as he came to them and not go to pieces, like Hooper did.
to try to get back to an ordinary way of life after a difficult experience
After Ruth's death, Joe found it hard to pick up the pieces and carry on.
Now that I'm settled in my own country, picking up the pieces and trying to start a new life, I've decided that having a diary is not a bad idea after all.
small things or jobs which are not connected or not very important
We've packed most of it up now, there are just a few bits and pieces left.
So, it's memories that make us keep odd bits and pieces.
a large pink, brown or black farm animal with short legs and a curved tail, kept for its meat
The meat produced from a pig is called pork, bacon or ham.
a pig farm
There is a small pink pig on it.
objects positioned one on top of another
a large pile of sand
a pile of books
The clothes were arranged in piles on the floor.
It was like finding a needle in a pile of straw.
a lot of something
I've got a pile of things to do today.
He's got piles of money.
He was very disappointed, he didn't want to leave but he had to because he had a pile of work waiting for him.
If something unpleasant piles up, you get more and more of it.
My work's really starting to pile up.
My work has piled up and I have to carry on.
a small, hard piece of medicine that you swallow
a sleeping pill
a vitamin pill
My mother takes three or four pills a day.
Jamie's always had trouble swallowing pills.
Don't forget your pills for your allergy.
a soft object which you rest your head on in bed
Do you prefer a feather pillow or a foam pillow?
I left it under your pillow.
someone who flies an aircraft
an airline pilot
a fighter/helicopter pilot
But if I want to be a pilot, I have to be good at English.
a small, thin piece of metal with a sharp point used for temporarily holding pieces of cloth together
I'll keep the trouser patch in place with pins while I sew it on.
to fasten something with a pin
We're not allowed to pin anything to/(up) on the walls.
Secondly, we need a big board. Everybody could pin information on it, for example the timetable, the menu for the canteen, or information about special events in and around the school.
a tall tree with long, thin leaves shaped like needles
a pine forest
After a few days, we came to a small lake surrounded by pine trees.
a large fruit with thick skin and sharp leaves sticking out of the top which is sweet and yellow inside
pineapple juice
We ate some slices of pineapple.
There is some special fruit here, like durian, pineapple, banana and so on.
being a pale red colour
pretty pink flowers
Have you been in the sun? Your nose is a bit pink.
I want to use pink paint.
a pale red colour
She's very fond of pink.
Dear Robbie, I would like to paint my bedroom pink because it's my favourite colour.
to say exactly what or where something is
It is difficult to pinpoint the exact time of death.
It is difficult to pinpoint the exact factors that lead to success and even more difficult to arrange them in any order of priority.
a measure for liquid equal to about half a litre
a pint of milk
a pint of beer
I thank everybody, hoping we'll see each other in the pub where I'll invite you for a pint of beer.
someone who is one of the first people to do something
one of the pioneers of modern science
Not only was he a bold pioneer by writing lyrics for rock songs in German as early as the late 1960s when the German music scene was still dominated by Anglo-American influences, but he was also concerned with German domestic and foreign politics.
a long tube inside which liquid or gas can move through
a water/gas pipe
a burst/broken/leaking pipe
A good surprise would be if you told Anna you need her to help to fix the pipe in our house.
someone who attacks ships and steals from them
The pirates held the ship's captain prisoner and demanded money for his release.
I'm crazy about pirates since I watched "Pirates of the Caribbean".
a large hole which has been dug in the ground
They dug a big pit to bury their rubbish.
I could demonstrate to people how to create compost pits and use kitchen waste to generate compost for their gardens.
an area painted with lines for playing particular sports, especially football
a football/hockey/cricket pitch
Supporters invaded the pitch.
For example, you can have free access to the football pitch, the basketball court and even to the golf course.
extremely dark
a moonless pitch-black night
It was pitch dark when we started to walk and soon we lost all sense of direction because of all the small paths that criss-cross the island.
to choose a place for a tent and put it there
We pitched our tent in a field.
After pitching my tent I could not wait to hike the moors.
describes something that you consider is bad or not satisfactory or not enough
a pitiful excuse
pitiful wages
The amount of time and money being spent on researching this disease is pitiful.
Due to the social structure of late 20th century Western States, with the so-called nuclear family being the usual family unit, more and more old people are driven to senior citizen's homes where they lead a pitiful life in isolation neglected by their children and society in general.
If something is described as a pity, it is disappointing or not satisfactory.
"Can't you go to the party? Oh, that's (such) a pity."
It's a pity (that) you didn't remember to give me the message.
"What a pity you were ill and missed the school trip!"
What a pity you couldn't come.
a feeling of sympathy and understanding for someone else's unhappiness or difficult situation
The girl stood gazing in/with pity at the old lion in the cage.
We took pity on a couple of people waiting in the rain for a bus and gave them a lift.
But the young man insisted so much that I took pity on him and in the end I agreed to help him.
to feel sorry for someone
She doesn't want people to pity her.
I pitied him for having such an empty life.
a large circle of flat bread baked with cheese, tomatoes, and sometimes meat and vegetables spread on top
a slice of pizza
I like a lot of different pizza toppings.
I like pasta and pizza.
a position, building, town, area, etc.
There are several places of interest to visit in the area.
It was a silly place to park.
This plant needs a warm, sunny place.
This looks like a nice place for a picnic.
His leg was broken in two places.
Are your documents in a safe place?
My favorite place is the hotel near Olomouc.
a home
We'll have the meeting at my place.
They've just bought a place in Spain.
Can you come over to my place this afternoon?
the seat where you sit in a theatre, a class, a train, etc.
The children collected their prizes and then went back to their places.
Could you save me a place near the stage?
We looked for a place to sit and found one.
an opportunity to study at a college, to join a team, etc.
She's got a place at university.
She's got a place on on a fine-arts course.
I felt it was my chance so on Monday I ran to the club. There were only 3 places left, and I will begin next Saturday.
to happen
The concert takes place next Thursday.
A dance night will take place in the club soon.
If you are in first/second/third, etc. place in a race or competition, that is your position.
He finished in fifth place.
To achieve first place, I have put a lot of effort into a project about the consequences of the use of plastic bags.
instead of something
Try adding fruit to your cereal in place of sugar.
Both television and books are very important for our education, for our lives, but never one in the place of the other!
to do something instead of someone else
If I can't make it to the theatre that night you can take my place.
First of all, it had been written that Danny Brook and Tina Truelove were starring, but Danny wasn't there and somebody else took his place.
at the start of a situation
Why did you invite her in the first place?
In the first place, you were unknown people for me, but now you are my special foreign friends.
in or to many different places
There were dirty dishes all over the place.
I am thinking of dog-dirt on the pavements, cans all over the place, and a lot of disgusting paintings on the walls in the public toilets, the underground and so on.
in the correct position
The chairs are all in place.
I looked neat and clean even after the wildest games in the school yard, with all the ribbons that tied my long hair in place.
If a rule, system, etc. is in place, it has started to exist.
There are now laws in place to prevent this from happening.
Let's take the example of Mexico City, where such restrictions have been in place since early 2000.
to let someone know that they are not as important as they think they are
He was rather arrogant, but the other kids soon put him in his place.
not in the correct position
Why are my files all out of place?
It was awful getting back from school and seeing all my things out of place.
not right or suitable for a particular situation
Everyone else was wearing jeans and I felt completely out of place in my office clothes.
This does not mean everybody is wearing tuxedos and dresses but you might be out of place just wearing shorts and a shirt.
When events or details that you did not understand before fall into place, they become easy to understand.
When Jo told me she had a twin sister, everything fell into place.
to put something somewhere carefully
She placed the letter in front of me.
Suddenly little Sophie, who was chewing a sweet, lifted the lady's hat, took the sweet out of her mouth and placed it on top of the lady's head.
to arrange to have an advertisement/order, etc.
She placed an advert for a housekeeper in the local paper.
Place an advertisement on the board near the students' canteen. There are always people looking for flat-sharing.
to cause someone to be in a situation
One stupid action has placed us all at risk.
Lack of education placed them in the lowest range of salaries at that time.
to give something emphasis/importance, etc.
They place a lot of importance on qualifications.
They want to fit into their peer group - having idols and placing importance upon clothes is not new for this age.
a serious disease that spreads quickly and kills a lot of people
They died in the plague.
Unfortunately, due to the basic conditions of hygiene, health care and even the constant wars and the consequent slaughtering, no one expected to get too old, especially in the Middle Ages, when the plague was running wild and free and teenage miscarriages, resulting in the progenitor's death, were common.
to make someone suffer for a long time
He's been plagued by bad luck ever since he bought that house.
On six days of the week, low-flying aircraft follow their course only metres above our heads, leaving behind a trail of citizens plagued by the constant incredibly loud noise.
simple and not complicated
a plain style of architecture
He prefers plain food - nothing too fancy.
I like wearing plain clothes.
not mixed with other colours, substances, etc.
plain yoghurt
For the living room, we've chosen a plain carpet and patterned curtains.
The wall didn't have any patterns, nothing but plain light blue. So I've decided to buy some pictures to put on it.
obvious and clear
It's quite plain that she doesn't want to talk to me about it.
The former can be seen in her (somewhat violent, I daresay) reaction to the dismissal of the two Jewish girls on Lord Darlington's order: she made it plain that she would leave if they should leave.
A plain person is not attractive to look at.
His wife is quite plain.
Lisa had a delicate frame and looked rather plain.
an arrangement for what you intend to do or how you intend to do something
holiday plans
Do you have any plans for the weekend?
The plan is that we'll buy a car once we're there.
There's been a change of plan and we're going on Wednesday instead.
Luckily, everything went according to plan.
I talked about my plans with my friends, and we listened to some CDs.
a drawing of a building, town, area, vehicle, machine, etc. which only shows its shape from above, its size, and the position of important details
an architect's plans
a street plan
a seating plan
He uses a computer to help him draw 3D plans, electrical circuit plans and that kind of thing.
to intend to do something
He plans to go to college next year.
I'm not planning to stay here much longer.
I plan to paint it icy blue.
to think about and decide what you are going to do or how you are going to do something
She helped them to plan their route.
If we plan carefully, we should be able to stay within our budget.
She's already planning how to spend her prize money.
Dear Dan, I have planned a wonderful night for us.
a vehicle that flies and has at least one engine and wings
a fighter/transport/passenger plane
She hates travelling by plane.
He likes to watch the planes taking off and landing.
We'll be boarding the plane in about 20 minutes.
I will travel there by plane.
a large, round object in space that moves around the sun or another star
the planet Earth/Venus
Might there be intelligent life on other planets?
It's about the planet Mars, because I'm very interested in space.
the activity of thinking about and deciding what you are going to do or how you are going to do something
Events like these take months of careful planning.
It seems like you have been doing a lot of planning for our trip next week.
control over which buildings are built in an area
town planning
Town planning and some income-tax rules are two other prominent factors.
a living thing that grows in the soil or water and has leaves and roots, especially one that is smaller than a tree
garden/greenhouse/indoor plants
native plants and animals
a tomato plant
There are different plants, trees, flowers and a lake.
to put a plant into the ground or into a container of earth so that it will grow
We planted trees and bushes in our new garden.
Hyacinth bulbs planted in pots now will flower early in the spring.
The house is beside a small lake and surrounded by all sorts of different flowers my aunty had planted.
to put a bomb somewhere so that it will explode there
Rebels had planted several bombs near the base.
As a result, they accused him of having planted a bomb in the Airport of Recife, in the city where he lived.
to make someone start thinking something
I was confident till you planted doubts in my mind.
While a society is trying to plant the idea of 'living together', at the same time, the short-term resolution for this problem should be considered.
a light, artificial substance that can be made into different shapes when it is soft and is used in a lot of different ways
Most children's toys are made of plastic.
He put a sheet of plastic over the broken window.
It's small and it's made of plastic and glass.
made of plastic
a plastic bag/box/cup
You need to bring a brush, pencil, paints, a plastic bag and some money to pay for the lesson.
a flat, round object which is used for putting food on
paper/plastic/china plates
a dinner/side plate
clean/dirty plates
There's still lots of food on your plate.
Can you bring me 3 plates and 3 cups because I don't have enough at home.
the area in a railway station where you get on and off trains
The train for Cambridge will depart from platform 9.
There were no people waiting on the platform and when he went through the station building, he noticed that it was almost empty.
a raised surface for people to stand on that is higher than the ground
a viewing platform
This brilliant young violinist has appeared on concert platforms all round the world.
It was dangerous, but I knew I had do it, bungee jumping! My instructor said 1, 2, 3, and then he said : "Go", so I jumped from the platform where I was standing.
a way of telling the public about your opinions
Basically, he uses the newspaper as a platform for airing his political views.
The artists in the music and entertainment industry especially have such a powerful platform for expression, but seldom do we see them use it to bring about unity, peace and brotherhood in the world; instead their music and message is about self-indulgence and gratifying their own personal needs.
If something that someone says or writes is plausible, it could be true.
a plausible excuse/explanation
All these points are strong and their theory is certainly plausible, but if we take a look at the subject from a different perspective, things may not be so clear anymore.
When children play, they spend time enjoying themselves with toys and games.
The children are playing in the garden.
She likes playing with her dolls.
I watch TV, play with my sons and when I have to sleep, I lie on the sofa.
When you play a sport or game, you take part in it.
You play tennis, don't you Sam?
We often play cards.
He plays for Manchester United.
I can go to the park and play tennis and golf.
to make music with a musical instrument
He plays the piano.
They could hear a jazz band playing in the distance.
I can play the guitar.
to make a radio, CD, etc. produce sounds
Could you play that last track again?
I could hear a radio playing in the background.
It showed videos and played mp3.
to be a particular character in a film or play
In the film version, Branagh played the part of the father.
The main actor played the part of John, a poor man that becomes rich.
to compete against a person or team in a game
Who are Aston Villa playing next week?
Arsenal are playing against Newcastle in the next round.
Arsenal played against Everton and Arsenal won the game 3-1.
to deceive someone in order to make them laugh
I played a trick on her and pretended I'd forgotten her birthday.
She didn't realise they were just playing a joke on her.
His best friend John couldn't put up with Pat always revealing his secrets, so decided to play a trick on him.
to be one of the people or things that are involved in an event or situation
Alcohol plays a part in around 60% of violent crime.
Technology plays an important part in this situation, because I don't think that adults are playing computer games for Batman or Spiderman, for example, but for the special effects and the graphics.
to play a piece of music by remembering the notes
She plays all the songs by ear.
As the years went by, she found it hard to cope with her slow headway in classical piano and her endlessly unfinished songs played by ear.
to decide how to deal with a situation as it develops
I'm not sure what to tell Dad - I'll just have to play it by ear.
On the way to Cambridge, I had made up my mind to play it by ear.
to be involved in an activity that could be dangerous
We're playing with fire if we continue with genetic modification of our food.
Stop playing with fire or World War 3 might come in the shape of a nuclear war.
to not deal with a situation seriously or honestly
Someone's life is in danger here - we're not playing games.
I couldn't possibly get all that money together, and the kidnappers were not playing games.
a story that is written for actors to perform, usually in a theatre
We saw a play at the National Theatre.
It's important to me because tomorrow I'm going to act in a play and I'll need it.
when children enjoy themselves with toys and games
a play area
And it has a play area for children to enjoy themselves.
behaviour that is fair, honest, and does not take advantage of people
The public needs to feel a sense of fair play from the government.
He still believes in justice or just the rule of fair play.
someone who takes part in a game or sport
a football/tennis player
Each player takes three cards.
My friend is a good football player.
someone who plays a musical instrument
a piano/violin player
I got a spectacular guitar signed by Adrian Smith, Iron Maiden's guitar player.
something that produces sound or video
a CD/DVD/MP3 player
Yesterday I left my mp3 player in your house.
an area designed for children to play in outside, especially at a school
We always play football in the playground.
I lost it in the playground.
a strong request
an emotional plea for forgiveness
"I promise, I'll never ever do it again" she nodded her head to emphasise the seriousness of her plea.
to say in a court of law if you are guilty or not guilty of the crime you have been accused of
He pleaded not guilty to five felony charges.
I have no idea if she was imprisoned, but certainly she pleaded not guilty and I'm sure she wasn't.
to ask for something in a strong and emotional way
He pleaded with her to come back.
She pleaded for mercy.
He had pleaded with his superior that he wasn't familiar enough with that part of the country, all in vain.
to say something as an excuse
You'll just have to plead ignorance.
It is no fun being left alone to tackle a hitch when everybody else pleads ignorance to the given subject.
enjoyable, attractive, friendly, or easy to like
a pleasant smile/person
a pleasant climate/day/surprise
Harold did his best to be pleasant to the old man.
It was pleasant to sit down after standing for hours.
You can spend a pleasant time in the fresh air.
in a pleasant way
They treated me pleasantly enough.
Jacqui was pleasantly surprised to get a B for history.
I was really pleasantly surprised that you're going to spend your summer holiday in Slovakia.
used to make a request more polite
Could I have two cups of coffee and a tea, please?
Please remember to close the windows before you leave.
We like Polish food, so please make us something from Poland.
used to accept something politely
"Would you like a lift home?" "Oh yes, please."
"Yes, please, it's an emergency," he answered.
to make someone feel happy
I only got married to please my parents.
He was always a good boy, very friendly and eager to please.
Considering her loneliness, we made every effort to please her and to encourage her, because she was loved by everybody for her gentle, kind and lovely character.
used to say that someone can have or do anything they want
Feel free to talk about anything you please.
He can come and go as he pleases.
Another is to have 20 years to do whatever you please!
happy or satisfied
Are you pleased about John's promotion?
We're so pleased that you're able to come to the wedding.
I'm really pleased with your work this term.
I'm pleased to hear you're feeling better.
I'm so pleased to know you are coming along.
a polite way of greeting someone when you meet them for the first time
I'm very pleased to meet you at last!
I will be pleased to meet you.
enjoyable
a pleasurable experience
Not that I would like to be locked up forever without a career or personal growth and just dozens of children of my own scampering around, but it certainly is pleasurable to drift off dreaming for a while in those huge castles.
a feeling of happiness or enjoyment
His visits gave his grandparents such pleasure.
Why do so many boys take pleasure in killing insects?
It gave me a lot of pleasure.
an enjoyable activity or experience
It was such a pleasure to meet you.
He wrote an article on the pleasures and pains of camping.
Reading is one of my few pleasures.
It would be a pleasure to have you here in Mexico during your holiday.
(the state of having) enough or more than enough, or a large amount
"Would you like some more coffee?" "No thanks, I've had plenty."
We've got plenty of time before we need to leave for the airport.
They've always had plenty of money.
There's plenty to do here.
There's plenty more beer in the fridge.
She's going to stay 3 weeks so we'll have plenty of time to talk about our life, dreams, etc.
a large number of something
There is a confusing plethora of pension plans.
There is a plethora of diets proposed by nutritonists and even if the ingredients happen to be widely diversified, every single one recommends fruit and vegetables as the most vital strengtheners of the human immune system.
an unpleasant or difficult situation
the plight of the sick and the poor
My brother's plight has always been a concern of mine.
the story of a book, film, play, etc.
The film has a very simple plot.
The plots of his books are basically all the same.
A film with a good plot, special effects, sound quality and some computer animations can turn into a real experience if watched with friends or relatives.
a piece of land, often for growing food or for building on
a building plot
Is there nothing we can do to prevent this little plot of nature we have left from being destroyed?
a plastic or rubber object with metal pins, used to connect electrical equipment to an electricity supply
a three-pin/two-pin plug
to fit/change a plug
If a plug is wired incorrectly, it can be dangerous.
We had to check every plug, switch, lights.
something you put in a hole to block it
a bath plug
Put the plug in the sink and run some water.
to connect a piece of electrical equipment to an electricity supply or to another piece of equipment
Could you plug the iron in for me?
It allows anybody to call from anywhere without having to plug it in a wall!
someone whose job is to repair or connect water pipes, and things like toilets and baths
When is the plumber coming to mend the burst pipe?
In the past I worked as a plumber.
quite fat
a plump child
After two hours a plump nurse came in and took him to the doctor's office.
to become lower in temperature, value, etc. very suddenly and quickly
Temperatures plunged below zero.
Five years later the German trend plunged and the Spanish followed, both reaching marks of 1.3 and 1.2 average children per family respectively.
to fall or move down very quickly and with force
The car came off the road and plunged down the hillside.
The moment you plunge into the pool you no longer belong to yourself, you cut the smooth surface of the water, moving faster and faster, until you reach the end, exhausted but content with yourself.
to do something important or difficult, especially after thinking about it for a long time
We're finally going to take the plunge and buy a house.
Being unable to stand this mystery, I decided to take the plunge and follow him.
a word or form which expresses more than one
'Geese' is the plural of 'goose'.
'Woman' in the plural is 'women'.
added to
What is six plus four?
The rent will be £75 a week, plus gas and electricity.
There will be two adults travelling, plus three children.
Finally, does the offer include two free meals in the restaurant plus breakfast?
and also
Let's not go on holiday in August - it'll be too hot - plus it'll be more expensive.
I would be more than pleased to receive you at home. We could have a lot of fun, plus, you won't have to pay a thing!
an advantage or a good feature
Your teaching experience will be a plus in this job.
Free accommodation is a plus for me, but there are some points which I want to find out about.
used to refer to a time after midday but before midnight
We'll be arriving at about 4.30 p.m.
The 6 p.m. train is usually very crowded.
See you tomorrow at 7 p.m.
a small bag for carrying things in, which forms part of a piece of clothing
a jacket/trouser/coat pocket
She thrust her hands deep in/into her pockets.
He took some coins from/out of his pocket.
Mary, last night I think I left my camera on your sofa because it's so small that it fell out of my pocket.
a container which is sewn into or onto a bag or fixed to a seat or door in a vehicle
Sarah put her maps in the inside/outside pocket of her rucksack.
The safety instructions are in the pocket of the seat in front of you.
the amount of money that you have for spending
I shouldn't have to pay for travel out of my own pocket.
The prices are not too heavy on the pocket and the service is brisk, efficent and friendly.
an amount of money given regularly to children by their parents
How much pocket money do you get each week?
How much pocket money do you get?
a piece of writing, especially one which has short lines and uses words that sound similar
a book of love poems
This mysterious man used to write a lot of letters and poems to my grandmother.
someone who writes poems
Rimbaud was a nineteenth-century French poet.
Everyone in my group knows that I'm quite a good poet, so Peter asked me to read some of my poems.
relating to poetry
poetic language
It was not vulgar or ordinary; far from that, it was literary, it was poetic: it was pure art.
poems in general as a form of literature
modern poetry
I enjoy all kinds of poetry, especially love poetry.
She started writing poetry at a young age.
My town hall organized a poetry competition.
an idea, opinion, or fact which someone says or writes
I'd like to discuss the first point in your essay.
He explained his point by drawing a diagram.
Could I make a point about noise levels?
I take your point about cycling, but I still prefer to walk.
Tomorrow I have another class exactly at the time of your class. I can't miss that class because it's a physics class. I know I may miss many important points but I promise you I will get the best mark (result) in the next exam.
a unit used for showing who is winning in a game or competition
With 3 games still to play, Manchester United are 5 points ahead.
We were losing by 1 point, I caught the ball and tried to throw it to my partner but...
the thin, sharp end of something
the point of a needle
The knife landed with its point sticking into the floor.
an opinion or fact that deserves to be considered seriously, or which other people agree is true
"She's always complaining that the office is cold." - "Well, she's got a point."
"How are we going to get there if there are no trains?" - "Good point."
First of all, in your picture you can reveal the style of life of teenagers (I think it is a good point).
the most important part of what someone says or writes
The point is, if you don't claim the money now you might never get it.
I think she missed the point of what you were saying.
I thought he was never going to get to the point.
I'm in a hurry, so I will come directly to the point.
the reason for or purpose of something
I'd try to explain to her how I feel but there's no point because she won't listen.
There's no point in inviting her - she never comes to parties.
What's the point of studying if you can't get a job afterwards?
Obviously, there is no point in saying "famous people have a right to their own lives."
a particular time or stage in an event or process
At one point, he seemed to completely forget what he was saying.
At that point, a soldier opened fire on the car.
It has got to the point where I can't bear to speak to him.
If, at this point, you decide to leave, that is fine.
At one point, I realised that it was 3 a.m. and many people were leaving the disco.
the mark (.) that is used to separate the two parts of a decimal
One mile equals one point six (1.6) kilometres.
to be going to do something very soon
I was at the point of walking out when he suddenly spoke to me.
In fact he simulated his death to escape from the police, who were on the point of catching him for his penicillin racket.
partly
What he says is true up to a point.
I agree up to a point with the statement given, but if the journalists didn't follow them, people wouldn't know so much about them.
something that someone is very good at
Cooking is not my strong point.
She's got a lot of strong points, more than weaknesses.
to be certain that you always do a particular thing
He made a point of learning all the names of his staff.
I was not expecting to meet him that night, because I thought he would be busy and not have time to talk to anyone, but being so special as he is, he made a point of talking to everybody.
a quality or ability which someone has
I know she's bossy but she has lots of good points.
"I wonder why Mr Co put up with her?" Ku mumbled. "But I suppose she had her good points."
one of the marks on a compass
the points of the compass
In the summer time, people come from all the points of the compass to have a vacation here.
not important or not connected with what you are talking about
The fact that he doesn't want to come is beside the point - he should have been invited.
If something someone says or writes is to the point, it expresses the most important things without extra details.
His report was short and to the point.
a subject which causes disagreement or makes people angry when it is discussed
Money is a bit of a sore point with him at the moment.
The family gathering was a bit of a sore point.
to show where someone or something is by holding your finger or a thin object towards it
She pointed at/to a bird flying overhead.
Everybody was pointing at me.
to hold something so that it faces towards someone or something
He said that the man had pointed a knife at him.
As he got closer, one of the group's members, Paul, pointed a rifle at him.
If something points in a particular direction, it is turned towards that direction.
The road sign points left.
There was an arrow pointing to the door.
Something that is pointless has no purpose.
pointless arguments/conflict
a pointless exercise
It would be pointless to argue with him.
Moreover, people who meet through e-mails and chatrooms can confirm that talking or sending messages to someone you can't see is pointless and boring.
an opinion
I can certainly understand her point of view.
You have to be willing to see other people's points of view.
That is my point of view.
a way of thinking about a situation
From the point of view of personal savings, the cut in interest rates is bad news.
From a medical/scientific point of view, it is an important achievement.
In addition, it is not useful to keep animals in cages even from a scientific point of view.
a substance that can make you ill or kill you if you eat or drink it
Someone had put poison in her drink.
The third day they were in the forest, Pablo was hurt by a piece of wood with poison on it.
to try to kill someone by giving them a dangerous substance to drink or eat
He tried to poison his wife.
Therefore, Matthew decided to kill Pat. He poisoned Pat by putting poisonous ice-cubes into Pat's wine glass.
to put poison or a dangerous substance in something
They poisoned the city's water supply.
Everyday millions of animals die, millions of acres of forest are burnt, millions of gallons of water are poisoned.
very harmful and able to cause illness or death
poisonous chemicals
Can you tell the difference between poisonous mushrooms and edible varieties?
On the other hand, the people in the future will probably wear clothes to protect themselves from the polluted air and water, the harmful ultra-violet rays from the sun and all the dangerous and poisonous gases or chemicals which are the result of a developed country.
A poisonous animal uses poison in order to defend itself.
a poisonous snake
Some of the animals, like poisonous snakes, crocodiles, and lions, are kept in special cages.
a large, white bear that lives in areas near the North Pole
Polar bears can be very dangerous.
So it's very difficult to create real-life conditions for some animals, for instance for polar bears and eagles.
a long, thin stick made of wood or metal, often used to hold something up
tent poles
It showed two young women in t-shirts and shorts leaning against a big pole stating '90 miles to Cuba'.
to be complete opposites
They are poles apart in their attitudes to religion.
Soho at night seemed to be the nicest place on Earth, poles apart from my home town.
the official organization that makes people obey the law and that protects people and places against crime, or the people who work for this organization
I think you should call the police.
The police are investigating him.
We were dancing and then the police arrived, because of the loud music.
a man who is a member of the police
His dad is a policeman.
Dear Ann: I left the documents in your house and I have to give them to the policemen.
a male or female member of the police
There were several police officers at the scene.
Then, I saw a police officer on the corner of the street.
the office of the police in a town or part of a city
We went to the police station to report the theft.
My home is opposite the police station.
a woman who is a member of the police
She was a policewoman for over 30 years.
We were policewomen in that neighbourhood and that night we were supposed to look into a drug dealer.
a set of ideas or a plan of what to do in particular situations that has been agreed officially by a group of people, a business organization, a government or a political party
They believe that the European Community needs a common foreign and security policy.
What is your party's policy on immigration?
In fact, more and more countries are creating new environmental policies.
an agreement that you have with an insurance company
Does your policy cover medical costs?
Working in an insurance company often means 'selling the air', but when you see that a person gets out of a difficult situation just because he or she has an insurance policy, you begin to love this job.
behaving in a way that is not rude and shows that you do not only think about yourself
I'm afraid I wasn't very polite to her.
He was too polite to point out my mistake.
She sent me a polite letter thanking me for my invitation.
The new teacher is very polite.
in a polite way
He thanked them politely.
I tried to control myself and started to speak politely and in a friendly way.
the state of being polite
We were impressed by their politeness.
Moreover, I have other qualities such as politeness, thus I am capable of looking after members of the public.
relating to politics
political leaders/parties
Education is back at the top of the political agenda.
I'm very interested in Italian political life, and I want to get news all the time.
in a way that is connected with politics
Politically, she is very experienced.
a politically active group
Nowadays most women have equal chances of education, are permitted to work, sign any bureaucratic papers with no need of their husbands' countersignature, are politically active and have an important professional career.
someone who works in politics, especially a member of the government
Churchill was a distinguished politician.
It was now the third month since the gangster had kidnapped her, because of her being the daughter of an important politician.
ideas and activities relating to how a country or area is governed
He has little interest in local politics.
She's planning to retire from politics next year.
But I'm very interested in politics, so I really enjoy political programmes and chat shows.
to make water, air, soil, etc. dirty or harmful
We need a fuel that won't pollute the environment.
Most of them don't pollute the environment, and they don't create traffic jams on the roads.
damage caused to water, air, etc. by harmful substances or waste
air/water pollution
The book shows simple things you can do to reduce pollution from your car.
The manifesto includes tough measures to tackle road congestion and environmental pollution.
There is less pollution than in the city and it is quieter too.
an area of water smaller than a lake, often artificially made
a duck pond
After that, we'll visit "Suizenji-Park" which is a real Japanese Garden with a pond and many kinds of flowers and trees.
to think carefully about something
He pondered what might have happened if he hadn't gone home.
However, I am still pondering and I am still not quite sure of what it means and so I asked myself, would climbing a mountain be a challenge for me?
a small horse
I have a pony.
The forest is inhabited by wild bears, wild ponies, golden eagles and non-poisonous snakes.
an area of water that has been made for people to swim in
The hotel has two outdoor pools.
Come with shorts that can get wet because after we paint my bedroom, we'll go to my pool.
a game in which two people use long, thin sticks to hit coloured balls into holes around the edge of a table
We played pool all evening.
I had a pool table in my bedroom and I had a lot of videogames.
a small area of water or a small amount of liquid on a surface
We dipped our feet in a shallow pool by the rocks.
a pool of blood
When I came into the kitchen, I saw a pool of blood on the floor.
having very little money or few possessions
Most of these people are very poor.
Many medicines are too expensive for poorer countries to afford.
It cost 500 Euro so it isn't for poor people.
used to show sympathy for someone
The poor girl didn't have any friends.
That cold sounds terrible - poor you!
It was about one poor boy who lost his parents at a really young age.
of very low quality
poor health
Last year's exam results were poor.
a poor harvest
But the quality of the food was poor.
not having much skill at a particular activity
Her spelling has always been poor.
Sam's a poor swimmer.
Since I was a teenager, I've often drawn and painted but without any kind of teaching, so my technique is poor.
If something is poor in a particular substance, it has very little of the substance.
Avoid foods which are high in calories but poor in nutrients.
They couldn't avoid a diet poor in vitamins, because of the shortage of food.
people who are poor
She spent her life working with the poor.
It is widely believed that under his management, Greece advanced economically and socially, made steps forward concerning the relationships with other countries and people, (especially the poor) loved him, for he made them feel important.
badly
poorly educated
On the contrary, to my mind both issues were handled rather poorly.
ill
Rosie was feeling poorly so I put her to bed.
When a colleague is absent due to feeling poorly, I can automatically do the duties of that person because we work as a group.
modern music with a strong beat which is popular with the general public, especially with young people
pop music
a pop concert/song
What do you want to listen to - jazz, classical or pop?
She wants to be a pop singer/star like Madonna.
I like pop music.
to go to a particular place
Doug's just popped out for a few minutes.
I'll pop into the supermarket on my way home.
Why don't you pop in/over and see us this afternoon?
Who could imagine life without the telephone? Not being able to call your friend and ask if you can pop in for a moment?
to make a short sound like a small explosion, or to make something do this by breaking it
The music played and champagne corks popped.
He popped the balloon.
Never had she experienced anything like it before, and all her intensity came back in one big bang, just as if she had been a bottle of champagne that someone had been shaking all these years, and now it had finally popped and the joy of living was pouring out of it.
liked by many people
She's the most popular teacher in school.
That song was popular with people from my father's generation.
Walking is a popular form of exercise in Britain.
How popular is Madonna among/with teenagers?
Jan wasn't very popular when she opened all the windows on that cold day.
The video is very popular.
for or involving ordinary people rather than specialists or very educated people
popular entertainment/culture
The issue was given full coverage in the popular press.
Due to his studies in Persian folklore and popular culture, he is the progenitor of anthropology in Iran.
A popular belief, opinion, etc. is one that many people have.
The allegations are false, contrary to popular belief.
Contrary to popular belief, Italian cuisine is not restricted to spaghetti and pizza.
the quality of being liked by many people
the increasing popularity of organic food
We agreed that something had to be done to promote the popularity of local films.
If an area is populated by people or animals, they live in that area.
The countryside is densely/sparsely populated.
The forest was populated by rare and colourful birds.
Hong Kong is a densely populated city.
the number of people living in a particular area
a growing/shrinking population
What's the population of Brazil?
With a population of about 800 people, that town really surprised me!
all the people living in a particular area, or all the people or animals of a particular type
a 9% rise in the prison population
The dolphin population has been seriously affected by tuna fishing.
Their yellow and black stripe has a mysterious beauty (which is the main reason for the huge decrease in the tiger population).
meat from a pig
a pork chop
pork sausages
We ordered pork chops, boiled potatoes, and greens.
a town by the sea or by a river which has a harbour, or the harbour itself
a fishing/container port
the Belgian port of Zeebrugge
We had a good view of all the ships coming into/leaving port.
The name is very interesting because the hotel is near the port.
able to be carried
a portable computer
Laptops are indeed a portable office.
the amount of food served to one person, especially in a restaurant
The portions are very generous in this restaurant.
I think you should take a packed lunch with you, because the restaurant is far too expensive and the portions are too small.
a part or share of something larger
A large/major portion of the company's profit goes straight back into new projects.
I accept my portion of the blame.
Such an event will probably attract publicity (TV, radio, newspapers) and since we are a new company, we will have the opportunity to become known to a large portion of the population in a short amount of time.
a painting, drawing, or photograph of someone
a portrait painter
She's commissioned an artist to paint her portrait/paint a portrait of her.
Downstairs we can find pictures by old masters and a great portrait of the Spanish King Charles the Third.
If a book or film portrays someone or something, it describes or shows them.
Both novels portray the lives of professional athletes.
In the film he's portrayed as a hero.
As soon as Piggy appears in the novel he is portrayed as an outsider.
the way that someone or something is portrayed
He won several awards for his portrayal of the great artist.
While this film may be criticised on grounds that it is a Swiss director looking at his own country, Minger's view proves to give an overly critical portrayal of Switzerland, showing that hindsight is indeed possible, even in such a small country.
to cause a problem
A lot of these chemicals pose very real threats to our health.
I hope everyone agrees with me that the new types of communication do not pose a threat to face-to-face communication, but probably reinforce it.
to stay in a particular position so that someone can paint or photograph you
The two leaders posed for photographs outside the White House.
The tourists are allowed to touch the seals, and the seals are willing to pose for the photographs.
to ask a question
It was left to Grazia to pose the question of how the project was to be funded.
For instance, you can pose a question concerning music to your listeners and the person who is going to call first to answer - correctly of course - will gain a small sum of money.
(of places and things) expensive and of high quality
a posh hotel
He takes her to some really posh restaurants.
First of all, the 'Kaya' is quite a big, posh restaurant whose interiors are like a traditional Korean house.
(of people and their voices) from a high social class
A woman with a very posh accent telephoned for him earlier.
Despite the fact of being a posh old lady, she is the kind of person that can make you commit a crime, so bad is her temper.
the situation that someone is in
In your position, I would probably resign.
She knows the person that owns the club, who decided to organize a private party for her 18th birthday. I wish I was in her position.
the place where something or someone is, often in relation to other things
I've found our position on the map.
You've moved the furniture around - the sofa is in a different position.
I like this restaurant because of its position, the old town, and most of all because the owner is a friend of mine so that the bill is not too expensive for me!
the way someone is sitting, standing, or lying, or if something is pointing up or down, etc.
a kneeling position
I go to sleep on my back but I always wake up in a different position.
Keep the bottles in an upright position.
Four hundred kms in that uncomfortable position was terrible for us.
the part that someone plays in a game such as football
I didn't know you played hockey - what position do you play?
It's a basketball club and all those guys in the club are much bigger than me. At first we talked to each other about which position we had to play.
your level of importance in a company or society
the position of women in society
Whether or not you're given a car depends on your position in the company.
Perhaps the style of their dress will indicate their position in society too.
a job
She applied for a position in the firm that I work for.
Dear Mr. Greenfield I am writing in response to the advertisement which I saw published in my local newspaper, as I would like to apply for the position you offer.
to be able to do something because of your situation
I'm not in a position to talk about this at the moment.
But no one is in a position to know about it yet, since now it is just an option.
If someone or something is in position, they are in the place that they should be in.
The police were all in position.
Remember to stay calm when you are in the car with the instructor, wear your seatbelt and check that all your mirrors are in position.
to cause someone to be in a difficult situation
When two of your best friends argue it puts you in a very difficult position.
I know that I will put you in a difficult position with my absence but I must leave.
feeling enthusiastic and happy about your life and your future
a positive attitude
I'm feeling much more positive about things now.
We've shown people samples of the product and had a very positive reaction/response.
She is lovely and she is always positive.
A positive effect is good and makes something better.
The improved diet has had a positive effect on his mood.
All the colours and the smell of fresh and dried flowers has such a positive effect on me that life feels great.
expressing the answer yes
We received a positive answer/response from the minister.
I am looking forward to your positive response.
certain that something is true
"Are you sure you saw him?" "Absolutely positive."
I'm positive that I switched it off.
I'm positive that my experience will be useful in another shop like yours.
If a medical test is positive, it shows that the person being tested has a disease or condition.
She did a pregnancy test and it was positive.
After some medical tests proved positive, she agreed with me.
in a good or hopeful way
I don't respond very positively to being bossed around - it just makes me angry.
Modern technology also affects my life positively in the lab I work for.
to have or own something
He was found guilty of possessing an illegal weapon.
She was lucky to possess a single nice-looking long dress for special occasions, so there was no point in wasting time choosing the appropriate dress.
something that you own or that you are carrying with you at any time
Please remember to take all your personal possessions with you when you leave the aircraft.
Talking about using your possessions, can I use your electronic appliances such as computers and CD players while you are away?
when you have or own something
I have in my possession a photograph which may be of interest to you.
He was caught in possession of explosives.
After many hours of deliberation, the decision was taken to search every hut and if anyone was found in possession of the diary then they would be killed for having commited an act of theft.
in grammar, a possessive word or form of a word shows who or what something belongs to
'Mine' and 'yours' are possessive pronouns.
wanting someone to love and spend time with you and no one else
She stopped seeing him because he was becoming too possessive.
It had never crossed her mind that Matt could ever be possessive, but after long discussions trying to persuade Matt, Alice won.
a chance that something may happen or be true
The forecast said that there's a possibility of snow tonight.
Is there any possibility (that) you could pick me up from the station?
There is a strong possibility that she was lying.
Then I remembered I had tried on some rings one hour before in a shop in the centre of the city. Maybe I had taken it off while I was trying them. It was a possibility!
something that you can choose to do from a number of options
We could take on extra staff - that's one possibility.
"Have you decided what to do?" "No, I'm still considering the various possibilities."
Another possibility is to go to the London Transport Museum, which is very close and free for students.
If something is possible, it can happen or be done.
Is it possible to speak to the manager please?
Please send it today, if possible.
Is it possible to buy tickets in advance?
If possible, I would like to eat lasagne, because I love Italian food.
as much/quickly/soon, etc. as something can happen or be done
Please sit down as quickly as possible.
I'll go as soon as possible.
I need it as soon as possible.
If something is possible, it might or might not exist or be true.
It's possible (that) Mira might turn up tonight.
"Do you think he'll end up in prison?" "It's very possible."
That's one possible solution to the problem.
I investigate the most urgent environmental problems in our world, and then I suggest possible solutions to them.
every time it is possible
I try to use olive oil whenever possible.
My friends have always regarded me as a cheerful, active girl, who is glad to help out whenever possible.
every time it is possible
Wherever possible I use honey instead of sugar.
We try to sell local fruit and vegetables wherever possible.
We can work together in a number of ways, for example, we can plant trees wherever possible and we can place bins in the necessary areas which will help the public to dispose of waste items.
the best/cheapest/worst, etc. that can happen or exist
We need to complete the work in the shortest possible time.
But I strongly believe that with good will and enough effort from both sides - our clubs members and you - we will work everything out in the best possible way!
used when something is not certain
Someone, possibly Tom, had left the window open.
He may possibly decide not to come, in which case there's no problem.
We can meet, possibly in Bath - we'll have a nice day together!
used in polite questions
Could I possibly borrow your computer?
Could you possibly lend me your bike for one day?
used with 'can' or 'could' for emphasis
We'll do everything we possibly can to help.
I couldn't possibly ask you to do that.
My opinion is that everyone who possibly can go by bicycle should do that.
letters and parcels that are delivered to homes or places of work
Has the post come/arrived yet?
I'd been away for a few days so I had a lot of post waiting for me.
Unless it's marked 'private', my secretary usually opens my post.
the public system that exists for the collecting and delivering of letters
My letter must have got lost in the post.
If you don't want to take it there, you can just send it by post.
So you have to send it by post.
a job in a company or organization
Teaching posts are advertised in Tuesday's edition of the paper.
She's held the post for thirteen years.
They have several vacant posts.
In addition, I have worked in a similar job so I have already gained the experience needed for the post.
to send a letter or parcel by post
Did you remember to post my letter?
I must post that parcel (off) or she won't get it in time for her birthday.
Could you post me the details/post the details to me?
Can you please post it to me. Thanks a lot!
to leave a message on a website
I posted a query about a Chilean novelist.
to make certain that someone always knows what is happening
Keep me posted on anything that happens while I'm away.
We will keep our members posted on the best eating places in town.
to be sent to France/London/Singapore, etc. to work, usually for the government or army
He was posted to Germany for two years.
At the age of eleven, my father was posted to Montreal and, naturally, I had to go along.
relating to the system of sending letters and parcels
the postal service/system
It's just another strike that has affected our everyday life, and Polish postal services in particular.
a card, often with a photograph or picture on one side, which can be sent without an envelope
Ella sent me a postcard from Japan.
Thanks for your postcard.
a large, printed picture or notice that you put on a wall, in order to decorate a place or to advertise something
The children put up posters on the classroom walls.
We noticed a poster advertising a circus.
I can give you some posters for the concert.
someone whose job is to deliver and collect letters and parcels that are sent by post
Our postman delivers everything in the morning.
I think a postman brought it.
a place where stamps are sold and from where letters and parcels are sent
Where's the nearest post office?
The house is behind the post office.
to arrange for something to happen at a later time
They decided to postpone their holiday until next year.
We've had to postpone going to France because the children are ill.
I'm doing an experiment tomorrow which I can't postpone.
the position of your back, shoulders, etc. when you are standing or sitting
She has very good posture.
As for the furniture, replacing old rickety chairs would result in better working conditions and prevent fatigue, stress, incapacity for work due to bad posture, therefore speeding up productivity and doing away with complaints about pain and poor health.
a round container, usually used for storing things or for cooking
a pot of face cream/jam/paint
a flower pot
There's plenty of cupboard space in the kitchen for all your pots and pans.
Fill a large pot with salted water and bring it to the boil.
By the right window there is a green plant in a pot.
a round vegetable with a brown, yellow, or red skin that grows in the ground
boiled/baked/fried/roast potatoes
mashed potato/potatoes
I like to eat mashed potatoes with chicken and salad.
possible when the necessary conditions exist
A number of potential buyers have expressed interest in the company.
Many potential customers are waiting for a fall in prices before buying.
The accident is a reminder of the potential dangers involved in oil production.
As a potential customer, I need some further information.
someone's or something's ability to develop, achieve or succeed
The region has enormous potential for economic development.
I don't feel I'm achieving my full potential in my present job.
You have the potential to reach the top of your profession.
I think this room has got a lot of potential.
The sheer potential for communication it offers is overwhelming.
possibly
Hepatitis is a potentially fatal disease.
This crisis is potentially the most serious in the organization's history.
One must not ignore the fact that mobile phones are potentially harmful: scientific experiments tend to show that microwaves produced by phones may cause cancers and tumours.
plates, bowls, etc. that are made from clay
They sell pottery and other handmade goods.
You can see very precious pottery and take pictures of old goods in antique shops.
the activity or skill of making plates, bowls, etc. from clay
I am doing pottery evening classes.
So I suggest we should print new ones with the latest information, for example about our new pottery courses.
the unit of money in the UK
a one-pound/two-pound coin
There are one hundred pence in a pound.
They stole jewellery valued at £50 000.
"Have you got any change?" "Sorry, I've only got a five-pound note.
It cost fifty pounds.
a unit for measuring weight
One pound is approximately equal to 454 grams.
One kilogram is roughly the same as 2.2 lbs.
There are 16 ounces in one pound.
Ann's baby weighed eight and a half pounds at birth.
to hit or beat repeatedly with a lot of force, or to crush something by hitting it repeatedly
I could feel my heart pounding as I went on stage to collect the prize.
The city was pounded to rubble during the war.
He pounded on the door demanding to be let in.
Tina's heart began to pound when suddenly, she heard her name being called out loud!
to make a liquid flow from or into a container
I poured the milk into a jug.
Can I pour you a drink?
The look on his face stopped me cold, as if someone had just poured a freezing bucket of water down my back.
to rain a lot
We can't go out in this weather - it's pouring!
I really enjoy shopping, specially in winter time when the rain is pouring down.
to flow quickly and in large amounts
Blood was pouring from my leg.
He woke up and cleaned off the blood that poured from his injured eyebrow.
to enter or leave a place in large numbers
The crowd poured out into the street.
Those are the tourists, who pour out of the jumbo jet, who get gathered by a charming guide and who are driven to the next airconditioned luxury hotel. PHRASAL VERB pour sth out or pour out sth PHRASAL VERB
If you pour out your feelings or thoughts, you talk very honestly about what is making you sad.
She listened quietly while he poured out his troubles.
She let me pour out my feelings, a thing I did not do to anyone.
the condition of being extremely poor
Two million people in the city live in poverty.
He emigrated to Australia to escape the poverty of his birthplace.
First of all, I think that our grandparents lived in poverty without amenities.
a dry substance made of many small, loose grains
curry/chilli powder
A packet of white powder was found and police scientists are analysing it.
Why are there so many adverts for washing powders on TV?
At last I found a box. I put the wasted coffee powder into it and went back to the coffee machine.
energy, usually electricity, that is used to provide light, heat, etc.
power cables/lines
nuclear power
Turn off the power at the main switch.
From my parents, I found out that there was a power failure.
control or influence over people and events
I've no power over him - he does what he wants to.
People can't be trusted with power. They will always reach for more.
political control in a country
They have been in power too long.
When did this government come to power?
It happened in the November of 1973 and it is the University students' rebellion against the outlaw military goverment which had come to power in 1967 after a violent coup.
to do everything that you are able and allowed to do in order to achieve something
I've done everything in my power to help him.
I think of myself as an open-minded and cheerful person and if I get the job I will do everything in my power to make sure your visitors will have a great time at the theme park.
a country that has a lot of influence over others
a major world power
Unfortunately this trend continues into adulthood and has become so bad that in a world power like the United States, one in every three people are considered clinically obese.
strength or force
economic/military power
We have enough population and economic power to set up a complete city.
A powerful person is able to control and influence people and events.
a powerful man/woman
The man worked for a really powerful man, doing the 'dirty work', but, deep inside he was a really good person with a sad childhood.
having a lot of strength or force
a powerful computer/engine/weapon
The activity that I like best is surfing the Web with a powerful personal computer.
having a strong effect on people
a powerful effect/influence
The importance of this invention is that the information transmitted on it reaches a lot of people at the same time, so it's a very powerful method of communication in our society.
in a powerful way
She kicked the ball so powerfully that it flew over the hedge.
Klaus is a very powerfully-built man .
Mary moved to her aunt's house, an inn, but she had got married to a strange, powerfully-built man.
relating to experience, real situations or actions rather than ideas or imagination
Qualifications are important but practical experience is always an advantage.
The service offers young people practical advice on finding a job.
What's the use of theoretical knowledge that has no practical application?
Before making up my mind, I would like to gain some experience through practical activities.
able to be done successfully
a practical solution
The plan is simply not practical.
This is not a very practical solution for the employees.
suitable or useful for a situation which may involve some difficulty
practical clothes/shoes
Pale carpets just aren't practical if you have kids.
Instead of being practical, our clothes need to be extravagant.
Someone who is practical is good at planning things, making sensible decisions and dealing with problems.
She has a lot of interesting ideas but she's not very practical.
But Macon is a practical man, so he tries to find the advantages of living on his own.
almost or very nearly
She blamed me for practically every mistake in the report.
These changes would cost us practically nothing.
It's practically impossible for me to get home in less than an hour.
They used to argue all the time and now they've practically stopped talking to each other.
Today it is used in practically all spheres and its influence on people is not unnoticeable.
when you repeat an activity to improve your ability
We need a bit more practice before the concert.
Are you coming to cricket practice this evening?
The new class art is on Thursday evening, after basketball practice.
to not do something well because you have not done it recently
I didn't play very well today - I'm out of practice.
I think playing in the club will be a great opportunity for me so as not to be out of practice.
in a real situation
In practice, the new laws have had little effect.
When you leave school, you have knowledge but you do not know how to use it in practice.
to do something in reality that has been planned or talked about
Next month we will have a chance to put these ideas into practice.
How do you intend to put these proposals into practice?
The doctors cannot really put all their skills into practice.
what people do or how they do it
the illegal practice of copying CDs
What can European companies learn from Japanese business practices?
It is common practice to bury waste in landfills.
What is standard practice in a situation like this?
Chancellors as well as men in the king's court were known to be corrupt and dishonest, who made bribery a common practice.
to do or play something regularly or repeatedly in order to become skilled at it
She practises the violin every day.
I'm quite good at tennis but I need to practise my serve.
His written French is very good but he needs to practise speaking it.
I would like to talk with people to practise my English.
to work as a doctor or a lawyer
to practise medicine/law
Many women practise law and become judges.
someone who works in a profession such as medicine or law
a medical practitioner
Another measure is to encourage people to do some forms of exercise and this is where health care practitioners come in.
doing things in a practical and realistic way and not using only ideas
a pragmatic approach to a problem
Analysing such opinions, it is not hard to conclude that the younger generation, which is traditionally regarded as romantic and idealistic, has become rather pragmatic and down-to-earth and got used to associating success in life with affluence.
to express admiration or approval about the achievements or characteristics of a person or thing
He should be praised for his honesty.
My parents always praised me when I did well at school.
He was highly praised for his research on heart disease.
In fact, my grade was the best in the class and my Maths teacher praised me for being so careful and correct.
words you say to show that you admire someone or something
They deserve praise for their achievements.
Her first novel won a lot of praise from the critics.
This may sound like glowing praise, but Michael really deserves it.
a small sea animal which you can eat, and which has a shell and ten legs
a prawn sandwich
Li-Chuong's specialities are sweet and sour pork, prawns and .. rice!
to speak to a god in order to show your feelings or to ask for something
She knelt and prayed silently.
Let us pray for the victims of this terrible disaster.
It always reminds me when to study, to pray, etc.
to hope for something very much
We're praying for good weather for tomorrow's cricket match.
I am very disappointed with this event and praying that it will happen again next year.
the words you say to a god
a prayer of thanks
She always says her prayers before she goes to sleep.
We thought he'd been killed, but our prayers were answered when he arrived home safely.
I am stopping this letter with lots of love and prayers.
something that you do to prevent bad things happening in the future
Driving alone at night can be dangerous, so always take precautions.
They called the doctor as a precaution.
He took the precaution of locking the door.
The dancing and the horse shows were indeed cancelled, as a precaution out of fear of the weather becoming even worse.
to happen or exist before something else
The formal ceremony was preceded by a parade.
Second, guest appearances should be preceded by the reading and discussion of those writers' works, otherwise students may profit and benefit little from meeting and talking to them at such events.
an action or decision that is used as an example when someone wants to do a similar thing in the future
This decision has set an important legal precedent for other countries.
Although it definitely sounds rather optimistic, this precedent might be used to improve one aspect of life in the future: safety and peace.
rare and very valuable
a precious vase
a precious gift
a precious metal/stone
I am so sorry because I broke a precious vase you had in your bedroom.
very important to you
a precious moment/memory
His books are his most precious possessions.
Time is precious - don't waste it.
Love is something precious which we all want to have.
exact and accurate
The precise location of the house is a secret.
He caught me at the precise moment that I fainted.
I would appreciate it if you were more precise next time with your report.
used to give exact details about something
We met in 1994 - on October 1st to be precise.
There was a good turnout for the meeting - twelve of us to be precise.
It's in Central London, to be precise.
exactly
The fireworks begin at eight o'clock precisely.
What do you think the problem is, precisely?
He was born in the countryside, more precisely in Bourgogne, and he had always lived there.
used to emphasize what you are saying
"You look tired - you should go home and rest." - "I'm going to do precisely that."
But it's precisely because of the noise that they're thinking of moving.
Books may not be interactive, but that's precisely where their advantage is.
used to agree with what someone else says
"It's not the shape I dislike, it's the colour." - "Precisely!"
an animal that kills and eats other animals
These animals have remarkably few predators.
Ferocious animals, such as tigers, lions and snakes (anacondas) can be seen in these areas, but for those who are not used to forests, these predators may only become visible once they are attacked.
the person who was in a job or position before
He seems a lot better than his predecessor.
In the light of the above-mentioned arguments it remains all the more odd why my predecessor has chosen decisions concerning friendship and leisure activities as examples of his thesis.
to say that an event or action will happen in the future, especially as a result of knowledge or experience
It's still not possible to predict the occurrence of earthquakes accurately.
Who could have predicted that within ten years he'd be in charge of the whole company?
The hurricane is predicted to reach the coast tomorrow morning.
No one can predict when/where the disease will strike next.
Now, fully equipped and powerful computers can be so small and mobile that some specialists predict that new devices will replace books.
happening or behaving in a way you expect and not unusual or interesting
Comets appear at predictable times.
When I was younger I read many books. I preferred mystery stories, but now they are very predictable for me.
when you say what will happen in the future
Please don't ask me to make any predictions about tomorrow's meeting.
No one believed her prediction that the world would end on November 12.
But in case my predictions are right, maybe you should buy a new pair of shorts?
more important or noticeable than others
He has played a predominant role in these talks.
As far as I know, the predominant wish of students leaving school is to enjoy life.
mostly or mainly
a predominantly Asian community
Nevertheless the Japanese scientist refutes the latter argument on basis of his famous theory, according to which the predominantly masculine pleasure of driving is caused by a 'hidden dictator's syndrome'.
to like someone or something more than another person or thing
Do you prefer hot or cold weather?
I prefer cats to dogs.
She prefers watching tennis to playing it.
Pop music is good but we prefer hip-hop.
used to say what you want or ask someone what they want
I'd prefer to go alone.
I'd prefer not to discuss this issue.
Would you prefer coffee or tea?
I'd prefer to come with you on Monday evening.
better or more suitable
Staying at home is preferable to going out with someone you don't like.
Surely a diplomatic solution is preferable to war.
I think it would be preferable to do it in July, which is a holiday period.
if possible
Water the plants twice a week, preferably in the morning.
I think you should spend more time with your friends, preferably in the fresh country air.
when you like something or someone more than another person or thing
We have white and brown bread. Do you have a preference?
Her preference is for comfortable rather than stylish clothes.
I have a preference for sweet food over spicy.
Choosing furniture is largely a matter of personal preference.
On the other hand, those who are in favour of keeping on with traditional education argue that no free choice of preferences can be made until one has received a basic education involving the study of different fields of knowledge.
a letter or group of letters added to the beginning of a word to make a new word
In the word 'unimportant', 'un-' is a prefix.
when a woman is pregnant
a teenage pregnancy
The reduced risk of further pregnancies in conjunction with less remuneration for their work makes these women seem more attractive to employers.
A pregnant woman has a baby developing inside her uterus.
to get pregnant
She's five and a half months pregnant.
My mother stopped smoking when she became pregnant.
My sister is pregnant with twins.
She wrote me the really nice news that she is pregnant.
an unfair and unreasonable opinion or feeling, especially when formed without enough thought or knowledge
Laws against racial prejudice must be strictly enforced.
He claims that prejudice against homosexuals would cease overnight if all the gay stars in the country were honest about their sexuality.
What is really amazing is that Biko, who is banned but 'free' of any prejudice, who doesn't discriminate against anybody, 'frees' Mr Woods (who is not banned) from his narrow-minded and intolerant views and gives another aim to Woods' life.
feeling dislike for a group of people or treating them unfairly because they are a different race, sex, religion, etc.
Are the police prejudiced against black people?
Men have been very prejudiced against women in this sector, so it has been hard to prove the opposite.
done or happening in order to prepare for the main event or activity
a preliminary discussion/meeting
Picasso would start with a lot of preliminary sketches and then go on to paint his final picture, where the main figures - a woman and a horse - are screaming in despair.
the land and buildings owned by someone, especially by a company or organization
The company is moving to new premises.
The ice cream is made on the premises.
The security guards escorted the protesters off the premises.
The staff will have more space to work in as our local branch is moving to larger premises, and better work conditions will be provided to them.
If something useful is at a premium, there is not enough of it.
Time is at a premium just before the start of exams.
Honesty and accuracy are very good virtues to strive for, but having friendship and a fair and caring relationship to your friend or partner have to be rated at a premium as well.
an amount of money you pay for insurance
How much is the monthly premium?
They also had to pay a premium to the government and on turning sixty-five, their pension would be paid from this fund.
A premium product is of a higher quality or value than others.
premium beer
You can get Fondue or Raclette made of premium Swiss cheese, going with fresh salads with whatever dressing you want.
the things that you do or the time that you spend preparing for something
The teacher didn't seem to have done much preparation for the class.
The team blamed injuries and lack of preparation for their failure to win.
Yasmin assisted in the preparation of this article.
I felt that I improved a lot just in this class, so I think that my preparation for the exam will be really good.
plans or arrangements that you make to prepare for something
wedding preparations
We are making preparations to fly Mr Goodall to the nearest hospital.
Preparations for the opening ceremony are well under way.
I would really like to help you with the preparations the day before but it's impossible for me to come.
to make or get something or someone ready for something that will happen in the future
Have you prepared for your interview?
This course aims to prepare students for middle and senior managerial positions.
Are the players mentally and physically prepared to play a tough game?
For example, I can prepare the materials we will need for decorating.
to make food ready to be eaten
Marco prepared lunch.
I can help you to decorate the stage, and prepare some snacks.
to make yourself ready to deal with a difficult situation
Prepare yourself for a shock.
You should prepare yourself for a long wait.
So we bought tickets and prepared ourselves for a difficult journey.
ready to deal with a situation
When she called on me, I wasn't prepared.
They were prepared for the worst.
I want to be well prepared for my first trip to England.
to be willing, or happy to agree to do something
Would you be prepared to help me get things ready for the party?
People are not really prepared to talk about these kinds of personal problems.
I'm prepared to offer quite a lot in order to give the animals a better life.
done or made earlier
The spokesperson read a prepared statement.
More fast-food and prepared meals are available than a few years ago.
in grammar, a word which is used before a noun, a noun phrase or a pronoun, connecting it to another word
In the sentences 'We jumped in the lake', and 'She drove slowly down the track', 'in' and 'down' are prepositions.
In my 1st lesson I learned about prepositions, and I think I'm going to continue the class next week.
to say what medical treatment someone needs
Painkillers are the most common drugs prescribed by doctors in Britain.
I visited my doctor a few weeks ago in order to ask him if I could get tranquillizers as a remedy, but he refused to prescribe them as they wouldn't fight the real reason for my problems.
a piece of paper on which a doctor writes the details of the medicine or drugs that someone needs
a doctor's prescription
a prescription for sleeping pills
The doctor should give you a repeat prescription.
These drugs are only available on prescription.
Prescription charges are rising in June.
I won't be able to attend the English class tomorrow. But please, do excuse my presence by taking a moment to read the medical prescription that I've attached to this note.
when someone or something is in a place
She was anxious about the presence of so many people.
The presence of pollen in the atmosphere causes hay fever in some people.
He's usually quite polite in my presence.
The document was signed in the presence of two witnesses.
Your presence here at the club would be really beneficial for the students.
a quality that makes people notice and admire you
She's only small, but she has real presence.
He derived great benefit from her soothing presence, but otherwise was too duty-bound to notice their relationship went haywire.
to have a strong effect on other people
The new police chief has really made his presence felt.
Before long a local bicycle gang was formed which would ride all over the village, through fields and gardens, making our presence felt.
a group of police or soldiers who are watching or controlling a situation
a strong police presence
People residing in the countryside find themselves living in fear, claiming that the lack of police presence and protection has resulted in great insecurity.
a feeling that someone is still in a place although they are not there or are dead
His daughter's presence seemed to fill the empty bedroom.
There was something there that disturbed him, he felt a strange presence but couldn't describe what it was.
the ability to deal with a difficult situation quickly and effectively
She had the presence of mind to press the alarm.
Frank tried to hide a bag behind his back with great presence of mind.
the form of the verb which is used to show what happens or exists now
All the verbs in this text are in the present.
something that you give to someone, usually for a particular occasion
a birthday/Christmas/wedding present
They gave me theatre tickets as a present.
Sandra gave me a beautiful present: a gold ring with a sapphire.
the period of time that is happening now
That's all for the present.
The play is set in the present.
For me, an ideal programme would be one that could include all kinds of music (from rock, pop to soul, hip hop or dance), and a programme that could play music from all times, from the past to the present.
now
At present she's working abroad.
Firstly, I have to tell you that at present, I am studying journalism and I have a good knowledge of computers.
in a particular place
The whole family was present.
There were no children present.
I'm sorry, tomorrow I can't be present at your English class.
to give, provide or make known
The winners were presented with medals.
The documentary presented us with a balanced view of the issue.
He presented the report to his colleagues at the meeting.
It had to be realistic, so when we finished we presented it to the directors of my school.
to introduce a television or radio show
She presents the late-night news.
to show a new play or film
The school is presenting 'West Side Story' this term.
I am writing to complain about the organization of the musical show that the Circle Theatre presented.
to cause a danger/difficulty/problem, etc.
The interview didn't present her with any difficulty.
The final exam may present some problems.
Medical services do not present any serious problem at the moment.
to give people information in a formal way
He presented the report to his colleagues.
By presenting their findings to the public, they try to teach us how to behave in order to prevent this period of history from repeating itself.
If an opportunity presents itself, it becomes possible.
I'd be happy to go to New York, if the opportunity presented itself.
I would say that was a fairly good education since they knew how to reward us when the opportunity presented itself.
a talk giving information about something
The speaker gave an interesting presentation on urban transport.
I'm going to prepare a presentation about London.
an occasion when prizes, qualifications, etc. are formally given to those who have won or achieved them or the act of giving them
The presentation of prizes and certificates will take place in the main hall.
the way something is arranged or shown to people
Presentation is important if you want people to buy your products.
While the surroundings are very elegant, this is one restaurant where the food and its presentation is of paramount importance.
someone who introduces a television or radio show
a news/sports presenter
children's television presenters
Suddenly, a news presenter came on with a unusual message.
now
He's presently living with his parents.
I am presently working as a sales assistant in "La Suze," a lingerie shop in the city.
when you keep something the same or prevent it from being damaged or destroyed
the preservation of peace
the preservation of wildlife
I was asked to investigate the current situation in my area, concerning the efforts to cut down on the use of energy and natural resources, in order to contribute to the preservation of the environment.
to keep something the same or prevent it from being damaged or destroyed
to preserve the environment
We want to preserve the character of the town while improving the facilities.
It is a fundamental necessity for everybody to try to do something in order to preserve the health of our planet.
the job of being president, or the period when someone is a president
He has announced that he is running for the presidency.
She won the presidency by a wide margin.
His presidency finished in 1384 (2005), but Iranians will never forget him.
the highest political position in some countries, usually the leader of the government
President Obama
the President of France
Thank you, Mr/Madam President.
Another attraction is our museum that is very famous because many paintings have been bought by important people like the President of the United States.
relating to the president of a country
a presidential candidate
Anyway, now Laura was counting to 10 as her brother was putting a bomb in the presidential car.
to push something firmly, often without causing it to move permanently further away from you
Press the button to start the machine.
He pressed his face against the window.
Press down firmly on the lever.
When you press it, it will say: "Congratulations" to you.
to try hard to persuade someone to do something
The committee pressed him to reveal more information.
We pressed him for an answer but he refused.
A year later, the press, publishers and film-makers and directors pressed me to make a film on Stella.
to complain officially about someone in a court of law
The family decided not to press charges against him.
He decided on the spot that if Paul was to return all the money he wouldn't press charges so he called his parents and asked them to find out where he was. PHRASAL VERB press on PHRASAL VERB
to continue to do something or go somewhere in a determined way
It was pouring with rain but we pressed on towards the village.
However, she had decided to press on and pursue her obligations to a more motivating goal: she wanted to report the untold, the unsaid.
newspapers and magazines, or the people who write them
the local/national press
press reports
I helped them with most of the practical arrangements, such as meetings with the press, dinners and so on.
praise or criticism from newspapers, magazines, television, etc.
She's had a lot of bad press recently.
I also insist that you write a note of apology to the organisers, for bad press won't help either the charity or the hospital.
when someone tries to make someone else do something by arguing, persuading, etc.
public/political pressure
Teachers are under pressure to work longer hours.
Pressure to abandon the new motorway is increasing.
The government is facing pressure from environmental campaigners.
He only asked her under pressure from his wife.
I understand that you must work a lot because of the pressure from your boss, but I will in spite of that warn you and ask you to think over the situation.
to try to force someone to do something
They're putting pressure on me to make a decision.
She puts a lot of pressure on me and believes that I can do it in the same way as she did.
a difficult situation that makes you feel worried or unhappy
She's got a lot of pressure on her at work just now.
Be nice to him - he's been under a lot of pressure recently.
Can you work well under pressure?
the pressures of work
I have two younger sisters so I think I can cope with the pressure of helping out in the summer camps.
the force that a liquid or gas produces when it presses against an area
water pressure
The process of hydro-electric power generation is using the water pressure from the reservoir to generate the power, which is then transported to a transformer station through high voltage cables.
the force you produce when you press something
He put too much pressure on the door handle and it snapped.
You can stop bleeding by applying pressure close to the injured area.
when people feel respect and admiration for you, often because you are successful
His company has gained international prestige.
Many companies nowadays are organising some cultural or sports events in order to strengthen the company's prestige.
respected and admired, usually because of being important
a prestigious award
The jobs that were prestigious in the past seem to be the opposite now.
used to say what you think is the likely situation
They can presumably afford to buy a bigger apartment.
Presumably he just forgot to send the letter.
First of all, I would recommend departing at 8 o'clock because it will presumably be less crowded than at 10 o'clock.
to believe something to be true because it is very likely, although you are not certain
I presume (that) they're not coming, since they haven't replied to the invitation.
You are Dr Smith, I presume?
"Are we walking to the hotel?" "I presume not/so."
The universe is presumed to contain many other planets with some form of life.
I presume the students are keen on doing some exercise or even competitive sports.
when you believe that something is true without any proof
I object to the presumption that young people are only interested in pop music.
All positive effects of the higher average age of people have the presumption that their health allows them to live like younger ones.
to behave as if something is true when it is not
She's not really hurt - she's only pretending.
He pretended (that) he didn't mind, but I knew that he did.
Were you just pretending to be interested?
Of course I was angry - I can't pretend otherwise.
Be calm or at least pretend you are.
If a woman or girl is pretty, she is attractive.
She's got such a pretty daughter.
I met a pretty girl and she's called Mary.
If a place or an object is pretty, it is pleasant to look at.
That's a pretty hat you're wearing.
a pretty little village
Rabat is the capital of Morocco. There are a lot of attractions, like ancient historic sites, sandy beaches, and a pretty Moroccan market.
quite, but not extremely or not completely
The house has four bedrooms, so it's pretty big.
I'm pretty sure it was her.
I've got a pretty good idea of how to get there.
The best thing about our club is the table tennis, which I'm getting pretty good at.
almost
I've pretty much finished here.
She knows pretty well everything there is to know on the subject.
You can pretty much tell your mother any problem you have and she'll try her best to help you out.
to get control or influence
We can only hope that common sense will prevail.
This saying reflects an attitude that prevailed in the European countries of the 19th century when the people were no longer confined to only a basic education and the authority of the church.
to stop something from happening or someone from doing something
to prevent accidents/crime
Members of the public were prevented from entering the building.
As I told you once, I'd like to buy a bookshelf where I can organize my books and prevent them from getting damaged.
when you stop something from happening or stop someone from doing something
crime prevention
The organization is committed to disease prevention and education.
I think prevention is the best medicine.
Preventive action is intended to stop something before it happens.
preventive measures
preventive medicine
There are many causes to these problems and certain preventive measures should be enforced to solve them.
existing or happening before something or someone else
the previous day/week/month/year
a previous attempt
I felt my previous class was not suitable for me any longer, so I decided to ask the administrator to help me to change to a higher class.
before the present time or the time referred to
She was previously employed as a tour guide.
I had posted the card two months previously.
Well, first of all I must tell you that I didn't know it previously.
an animal that is hunted and killed by another animal
The camera follows the owl swooping down on its prey.
Like a tiger who looks at the prey he has just hunted, Martha looked at the dead body of the boy.
to be hurt or deceived by something or someone bad
He fell prey to a gang of criminals pretending to be council officials.
As young people do not have experience in living independently in society and are not fully aware of social problems such as drugs and violence, they may easily fall prey to adults who would like to exploit them.
the amount of money that you pay to buy something
high/low prices
House prices are falling/rising.
The price of fuel has gone up again.
The large supermarkets are offering big price cuts.
Please send me some information about the course, with timetables, prices...
the unpleasant results that you must accept or experience for getting or doing something
Suspension from the club was ahigh/small price to payfor his mistake.
What really characterizes Michael is his love for life, his continuous joy, which sometimes can become rather annoying, but this is just a small price to pay for all his success.
If you want something at any price, you will do anything to get it.
She wanted the job at any price.
They wanted to be parents at any price.
to accept the unpleasant results of what you have done
If you abuse your body now, you'll pay the price when you're older.
When all is said and done, do contemporary sports events pose an advantage to athletes pursuing their physical excellence? I would dare to say no, unless he, or increasingly she, is prepared to pay the price in becoming a ready-made product for public consumption.
to say what the price of something is
The car is priced at £28 000.
There is a lack of reasonably priced housing for rent.
Both games are priced at approximately £30.
very valuable
a priceless antique/painting
She had five unique paintings by Van Gogh which were priceless.
very important or useful
A trip round the world is a priceless opportunity.
It would be sad if not unfair for my friend to miss this unique and priceless opportunity.
a feeling of satisfaction at your achievements or the achievements of your family or friends
She felt a great sense of pride as she watched him accept the award.
The whole community takes pride in the school.
I take pride in you and your patience.
the respect that you feel for yourself
She has too much pride to accept any help.
Not only did I lose £50, but also some pride and self-respect.
to decide to do something although it will shame or embarrass you
He swallowed his pride and asked if he could have his old job back.
She has had to put up with all the psychological harm that her husband has put her through and at the same time, she has had to keep on struggling for her children, never giving in; holding back her tears, swallowing her pride just for the benefit of her daughters.
someone who performs religious duties and ceremonies
a Roman Catholic priest
Many in the Anglican Church are still opposed to women priests.
I started to read one of the emails and I couldn't believe what I was reading. One of my best friends had become a priest!
mainly
She's known primarily as a novelist but she also writes poetry.
"The Vagabond Dog" - one of his best short stories - is primarily naturalistic.
most important
Her primary responsibility is to train new employees.
You can listen to music and generally use it for fun but the primary reason that computers were invented was for communication.
a school for children aged 5-11
My daughter is still at primary school.
We sat at a cafe and talked about our primary school.
main or most important
the prime suspect in a murder investigation
a prime source of evidence
The president is a prime target for the assassin's bullet.
It is of prime importance to find out about culture and history.
a very good example of something
This is a prime example of what happens when communication is poor.
In this context in the analyses of Piggy's character, it strikes me as a first spontaneous impression that he personifies the typical proper schoolboy who will later on undoubtedly grow up to be the prime example of a good and responsible citizen.
the leader of the government in some countries
Yesterday I heard that animal rights activists have met the prime minister: maybe the situation will change.
relating to human society at a very early stage of development, with people living in a simple way without machines or a writing system
primitive man
primitive societies
Young people nowadays are more exposed to the world news, whereas primitive societies were rather isolated and had nothing to do with the outside world.
very basic or old-fashioned
The conditions at the campsite were rather primitive.
Students will not appreciate their primitive meals at any cost, even a low one.
the son of a king or queen, or one of their close male relatives
Prince Edward
At last, the beast really changed back into a prince.
the daughter of a king or queen, or one of their close female relatives, or the wife of a prince
He was married to a Spanish princess.
My teacher told me that I have to wear a dress like a princess.
main, or most important
That was my principal reason for moving.
He was principal dancer at the Dance Theatre of Harlem.
This is its principal advantage.
the person in charge of a school or college
She is principal of a London school.
Another thing you need to be aware of is that the teachers, the Principal and the whole class will be invited and we want this party to be a success because we deeply respect Mr Brown.
a basic idea or rule that explains or controls how something happens or works
the principles of the criminal justice system
The country is run on socialist principles.
The organization works on the principle that all members have the same rights.
Many laws in our legislation have been created according to his principles and beliefs.
If you refuse to do something on principle, you refuse to do it because you think it is morally wrong.
She doesn't wear fur on principle.
They granted themselves a little celebration: it was time to keep the promise made four years before; so they bought some bottles of wine and got drunk (they who, on principle, never drank alcohol).
If you agree with something in principle, you agree with the idea or plan although you do not know the details or you do not know if it will be possible.
They have approved the changes in principle.
In principle, one can agree with both positions pointed out in this statement.
a rule or belief which influences your behaviour and which is based on what you think is right
He must be punished - it's a matter of principle.
He cheated every time he had the slightest opportunity to, even when it wasn't necessary at all. It was a matter of principle to him.
a copy of a picture made using photography or by pressing paper onto a design covered in ink
a print of Van Gogh's 'Sunflowers'
MI5 operates two computers, one for word processing and another for scanning and reproducing prints, drawings and photos.
words, letters, or numbers that are produced on paper by a machine
The print's so small in this book that I can hardly read it.
If a book is in print, it is possible to buy a new copy of it, and if it is out of print, it is not now possible.
The novel was first published in 1880 and has been in print ever since.
There are books that you would never find again because they are out of print.
to produce writing or images on paper or other material with a machine
I printed your report and I've made some notes on it.
The instructions are printed on the side of the box.
I can print the invite for the concert.
to produce books, newspapers, magazines, etc., usually in large quantities, using machines
Fifty thousand booklets have been printed for the exhibition.
We should also have a more efficient tourist service - it is years since we last printed brochures of our town!
to include a piece of writing in a newspaper or magazine
They printed his letter in Tuesday's paper.
Please take this into consideration and print a corrected version of the article.
a machine which is connected to a computer and which produces writing or images on paper
a laser printer
I want to sell a computer with a printer.
existing or happening before something else
The course requires no prior knowledge of Spanish.
Referring to our prior correspondence I would like to inform you that I accept your friendly offer for being once again your interpreter on your one-week-tour through our country.
before a particular time or event
the weeks prior to her death
I'd like to tell you about my expectations prior to the conference.
something that is very important and must be dealt with before other things
The management did not seem to consider office safety to be a priority.
My first/top priority is to find somewhere to live.
You have to learn to get your priorities right/straight.
Banks normally give priority to large businesses when deciding on loans.
Official business requirements obviously take/have priority over personal requests.
We need to show films that are enjoyable for all kinds of people, always giving priority to the quality.
a building where criminals must live as a punishment
He's spent a lot of time in prison.
She went to/was sent to prison for six months.
They should put him in prison and throw away the key!
a prison cell/sentence
About 3 weeks later, I tried to escape from the prison, but they caught me.
a person who is kept in prison as a punishment
Prisoners climbed onto the prison roof to protest at the conditions inside.
This film dealt with two prisoners that escape from their prison and start to take money from banks (of course not legally!)
to catch someone and guard them so that they cannot escape
He was taken prisoner by a group of armed soldiers.
The ant princess was held prisoner by the evil beetle and the fly prince was on his way to save her.
the right to be alone and do things without other people seeing or hearing you
I hate sharing a bedroom - I never get any privacy.
The new law is designed to protect people's privacy.
Well, it seems that a young, modern and successful man can have no privacy at all.
to become involved in someone's private life when they do not want you to
They were fed up with journalists invading their privacy.
He would never invade our privacy or force us to talk about our problems.
becoming involved in someone's private life when they do not want you to
These phone calls to my home are an invasion of my privacy.
only for one person or group and not for everyone
She has a small office which is used for private discussions.
I caught him looking through my private papers.
The sign on the gate said 'Private Property - No Admittance.'
I went there to see what's going on, and the band invited us to their private party.
describes activities which involve personal matters or relationships and are not connected with your work
Apparently in interviews he refuses to talk about his private life.
We talked about the film and also about our work and our private life.
controlled or paid for by a person or company and not by the government
private education/healthcare
a private doctor/dentist
I have been working as an English teacher for small children at a private school for three years.
in a place where nobody else can hear you or see what you are doing
The meeting was held in private.
I agree that this should be in private.
in secret, or with only one or two other people present
She spoke privately with the manager.
Despite his public support, privately he was worried.
I'll pick you up from the station so we will have the opportunity to chat privately.
If an industry or organization owned by the government is privatized, it is sold to private companies.
The government plans to privatize many aspects of health care.
The companies were privatised or closed down.
an advantage that only one person or group has, usually because of their position or because they are rich
She was born into a life of privilege.
There are only a few things that have been worrying me a bit: firstly I would like to enjoy the privilege of having my own parking place.
an opportunity to do something special or enjoyable
I had the privilege of meeting the Queen.
I have attended several events in benefit of The Foundation but this one was particularly special and memorable as I had the pleasure and the privilege of meeting Elton again - it is really a great privilege to be friendly with someone so special as he is.
having an advantage that only one person or group has, usually because of their position or because they are rich
a privileged upbringing
As an ambassador, she enjoys a very privileged status.
Today we are so privileged, life has become so easy in many ways.
having an opportunity to do something special or enjoyable
I was privileged to see her sing in Milan.
something valuable that is given to someone who wins a competition or who has done good work
to win a prize
first/second prize
the Nobel Prize for Literature
The prize money for literary competitions can be as high as £40 000.
I won the first prize.
the advantages and disadvantages of something
We discussed the pros and cons of buying a bigger house.
But balancing the pros and cons, music is good.
how likely it is that something will happen
What's the probability of winning?
There's a high probability that he'll get the job.
The statistics say that if one woman gets married to one man, the probability that they will get divorced is 50 percent.
used to mean that something is very likely
She will, in all probability, have left before we arrive.
Anybody who can fulfill the above conditions will in all probability be successful.
likely to be true or likely to happen
The probable cause of death was heart failure.
An election in June seems increasingly probable.
It is probable that share prices will fall still further.
Surely the older you are, the less probable it is that you'll choose a bike.
used to mean that something is very likely
I'll probably be home by midnight.
I'm probably going - it depends on the weather.
He probably didn't even notice.
Probably the best thing to do is to call them before you go.
I'll probably be there by 3.30.
a situation that causes difficulties and that needs to be dealt with
I'm having problems with my computer.
health/financial problems
Drugs have become a serious problem in the area.
No one has solved the problem of what to do with radioactive waste.
English and Polish accents are very different, so this is a big problem for me.
something that you say to mean you can or will do what someone has asked you to do
"Can you get me to the airport by 11.30?" "No problem."
Dear Jo, No problem. I can help you.
something that you say when someone has thanked you for something
"Thanks for taking me home." - "No problem."
It's ok, no problem.
full of problems or difficulties
He has a very problematic relationship with his father.
On the other hand, there were some problematic issues.
the official or usual way of doing something
The company has new procedures for dealing with complaints.
You must follow correct procedure at all times.
Despite being a disorganised procedure, it was successful and many people wanted to attend next year's festival.
to continue to happen
His lawyers have decided not to proceed with the case.
I am not sure which is the best way to proceed with this problem.
to do something after you have done something else
She sat down and proceeded to tell me about her skiing trip.
Ku wagged her finger in approval and proceeded to explain her plan.
legal action against someone
The bank is threatening to start legal proceedings against him.
I happened to know that Diana Robinson, a 13-year-old girl, had started legal proceedings against Mr Thomson and Mr Ketzo, another teacher.
a written record of what is said or done in a meeting
I read the proceedings of the previous meeting.
Moreover, I would like to do some research on Spain's transition to democracy from dictatorship by accessing primary materials such as parliamentary proceedings, newspapers and other main sources available.
a series of actions that you take in order to achieve a result
the peace process
Increasing the number of women in top management jobs will be a slow process.
This decision may delay the process of European unification.
The party has begun the painful process of rethinking its policies and strategy.
Going to court to obtain compensation is a long process.
But the situation is getting worse because of the decisions of the European Union, which is trying to unify the education of Europe without respecting the wishes of the students who are trying to stop this process.
a series of changes that happen naturally
the ageing process
It's all part of the learning process.
These events are not only to entertain students, but they are also a part of the learning process, as by communicating with each other students learn the language.
If something is being done, and something else happens in the process, the second thing happens as a result of doing the first thing.
She stood up to say hello and spilled her drink in the process.
The tunnel was built, but many lives were lost in the process.
If an attempt is made to move them to another location they will probably die in the process.
to have started doing something
We're in the process of painting our apartment.
This feeling of affinity is especially important for young people and teenagers who are in the process of creating their own identity and I also believe that sportsmen and sportswomen make great role models.
to deal with documents in an official way
Visa applications take 28 days to process.
a line of people or vehicles that moves forward slowly as part of a ceremony or public event
a funeral procession
As Tom was leading the procession, he saw at once the black, forbidding scene.
to make or grow something
The factory produces about 900 cars a year.
She works for a company that produces electrical goods.
This plant will produce small yellow flowers in the spring.
She's asked me to produce a report on the state of the project.
In this club we produce and design the school magazine "Freestyle."
to cause a reaction or result
The prime minister's speech produced an angry response from the opposition.
Her remarks produced an awkward silence.
If used on delicate skin, this cream may produce a stinging sensation.
I was fascinated by the perfection of the classical sculptures: they were perfectly proportioned, every part was functional to the beauty of the whole sculpture. It's really different to looking at them in a book! I suggest everybody should go and look at them: it produces a magic effect!
to show or offer something to someone
One of the men suddenly produced a gun from his pocket.
Robert had produced a bottle of champagne, which they had emptied to the last drop.
food that is grown or made in large quantities to be sold
dairy produce
On Saturdays, I usually walk up to Mr Fall's farm at the far end of the village in order to buy some fresh produce like butter, eggs and milk.
someone who controls how a film, play, programme, or musical recording is made
a film/Hollywood/movie/record producer
I'm sure they are going to be very interested in your first steps as an actor, but also in your later career as a film producer.
a company, country, or person that makes goods or grows food
Australia is one of the world's main producers of wool.
For example, in several countries people who live in the countryside actually are the main producers of wheat and also the meat that people need in their daily life.
something that is made or grown to be sold
They do a range of skin-care products.
The product is so good it sells itself.
I'm trying to cut down on dairy products.
You can buy leather products too.
when you make or grow something
Sand is used in the production of glass.
The company's new model will be going into production early next year.
More people can enjoy music than before, because of the mass production of recorded music.
the amount of something that is made or grown by a country or a company
We need to increase production by 20%.
Swedish industrial production has fallen steadily this year.
Wheat production has risen over the years.
He became famous because he did a lot of things in this country in a year, like giving them a good education, and increasing their production.
when someone controls how a film, play, programme, or musical recording is made
She's hoping to get into television production.
Indeed, Northwood cinema enables people to discover films from all over the world - from a small Brazilian production to a 3 hour Bollywood movie.
producing a good or useful result
We had a very productive meeting and sorted out a lot of problems.
Some people think that by keeping animals in a zoo we can observe them, and try to understand the way they live; of course, you can learn things, but it would be more productive to observe them when they are free.
producing a large amount of goods, food, work, etc.
productive land
a productive worker
When the weather is good, I am in the appropriate mood to be productive at work.
the rate at which goods are produced or work is done
We need to increase productivity by 50%.
Though time-consuming, these staff would need to undergo re-training to be able to achieve the highest level of productivity, besides getting accustomed to the nick-nacks of the Production Department.
a type of work that needs special training or education
What's your profession?
He's a doctor by profession.
The report notes that forty per cent of lawyers entering the profession are women.
As I look back at my past, the most embarrassing moments in my life seem to have something to do with my profession, which is an interpreter from Hungarian.
the people who do a type of work considered as a group
The medical profession has expressed concern about the new drug.
One day, when I had an exam, the examiner asked me questions about the legal profession.
Someone is professional if they earn money for a sport or activity which most people do as a hobby.
a professional footballer/athlete/musician
For example, I met a boy last week and at the end he told me that his father is a professional football player.
showing skill and careful attention
a professional attitude
He looks very professional in that suit.
My teacher is English, her name is Bronye, she's very professional, and nice.
relating to a job that needs special training or education
Chris, you're a nurse, so can I ask your professional opinion on bandaging ankles?
You should get some professional advice about your finances.
I want to play safe by saying that I am not an architect, therefore I am not able to give professional advice.
someone who earns money for doing a sport or activity which most other people do as a hobby
a rugby professional
Finally, I wondered whether it would be possible to explain how long it takes an amateur to become a professional. Despite knowing almost nothing about tennis I would like to win a championship in the future.
someone who does a job that needs special training or education
health professionals
Computer skills and knowledge are really important for researchers and media professionals.
a teacher of the highest rank in a department of a British university, or a teacher of high rank in an American university or college
Professor Stephen Hawking
a professor of sociology
a sociology professor
To put it in a nutshell I was astonished at how they weren't able to get on using that assortment of high ranked university professors of social science, and were requiring my help.
a short description of a person, organization, etc., giving the main details about them
He's updated his Facebook profile.
We include a photograph and short profile of all the candidates.
I hope the above information suits the profile of the person you are looking for for the job.
the amount of public attention that someone or something receives
The firm has a high profile due to the recent media coverage.
The advertising campaign aims to raise the profile of the company.
I believe that this is a great idea, as it will help raise the profile of our club in our college, and therefore may help increase interest in the club and possibly its membership.
to try not to be noticed
She has kept a low profile since the divorce.
Finally, I believe that the best way to handle these issues is to try to keep a low profile at all times and to remain indifferent to gossip.
money that you get from selling goods or services for more than they cost to produce or provide
She makes a big profit from selling waste material to textile companies.
Company profits are down on last year's figures.
He sold his house at a huge profit.
Also, supermarket owners have put in a vast amount of money to find out the best way to display goods in order to get the most profit.
resulting in or likely to result in a profit or an advantage
Over the years it has developed into a highly profitable business.
It is a very profitable business.
useful or likely to give you an advantage
a profitable discussion
I made profitable use of my time, mixing with a lot of different people and practising my Spanish.
The 'language-shower', as it is called, can sometimes be more productive, efficient and profitable in terms of assimilating knowledge than any course given by highly esteemed professors.
If an effect, impact, influence, etc. is profound, it is extreme.
The war had a profound impact on people's lives.
This stimulation is essential in our quest for spiritual and emotional well-being and exerts a profound effect on our psyche.
very great or serious
The internal market is bringing about profound changes in the health system.
Generally speaking, a history of economic and political dependency leads the country to a narrow wealth distribution and profound social differences.
If a feeling is profound, you feel it very strongly.
a profound sense of sadness
Apparently the prologue to an adventure book, praising the pragmatism and profound sense of democracy of the British culture, the novel will reveal the most savage aspects of human nature through the analysis of the boys' behaviour.
If an idea or piece of work is profound, it shows intelligence or a great ability to understand.
a profound question
His theories were simple, but profound.
His professional knowledge is profound and respected by students and other lecturers alike.
in a profound way
I think this approach is profoundly misguided.
Her recent songs have been profoundly influenced by current events.
In my opinion the reason why Olivia left Douglas was not so much that she didn't love him as the fact that she was profoundly bored by the life she conducted in India.
a series of instructions which can be put into a computer in order to make it perform an operation
a computer program
She's written a program to find words which frequently occur together.
In this lesson, we are taught with interactive material. For example, the other day we used this computer program where we could change the sentences and see the different meanings.
a show on television or radio
Did you see that programme about spiders last night?
It's my favourite TV programme - I never miss an episode.
Don't be late Robbie because I have my favourite programme on TV at 9.30.
a plan of events or activities with a particular purpose
The college offers an excellent social programme.
First of all I have to say that the school social programme was the best and I really enjoyed it.
someone who writes computer programs as a job
We employ six programmers on the project.
I'm a 35-year old programmer in a small company.
when someone writes computer programs
We learned how to do programming.
I'm very keen on programming and I have made a lot of small utility programs for both Mac and PC.
development and improvement of skills, knowledge, etc.
Technological progress has been so rapid over the last few years.
I'm not making much progress with my Spanish.
I will check new words, their meanings and pronunciations, to make progress for missed sessions.
happening or being done now
Repair work is in progress on the south-bound lane of the motorway and will continue until June.
In the lower part of your advertisement, it also said there was a theatre restaurant, but in fact, it was closed because internal decoration was in progress.
to improve or develop in skills, knowledge, etc.
My Spanish never really progressed beyond the stage of being able to order drinks at the bar.
I have to warn you than I'm not an expert in terms of musical basics, but I'm eager to learn them because I know no-one can progress without learning them; so the main job will be to do that.
to continue gradually
I began to feel more relaxed as the evening progressed.
As the evening progressed we got to see some of the local dances as well as a play performed by a band of gypsies.
when something or someone changes to the next stage of development
a logical/natural progression
Drugs can stop the progression of the disease.
Sharing information between people is a crucial point of peoples' education and it can help in their career progression.
thinking or behaving in a new or modern way
progressive ideas/attitudes
a progressive school
I hear that some progressive companies don't really approve of company cars and are trying to keep them to a minimum.
developing or happening gradually
There's been a progressive decline in the standard of living over the past few years.
a progressive disease
It was not a quick change, on the contrary it was a progressive change which was accelerated by some factors during the last two decades.
to officially forbid something
Motor vehicles are prohibited from driving in the town centre.
The government introduced a law prohibiting tobacco advertisements on TV.
Parking is strictly prohibited between these gates.
Perhaps we should prohibit the traffic and create a new cheap bus service for the inhabitants and the tourists.
a piece of school work that involves detailed study of a subject
He's doing a class project on pollution.
In our third year at college everyone had to do a special project.
I need my laptop because I saved my school project on it.
a carefully planned piece of work that has a particular purpose
a scientific research project
My next project is decorating the kitchen.
Her latest project is a film based on the life of a nineteenth-century artist.
It is also related to my research project.
a calculation or guess about the future based on information that you have
government projections of population growth
The line graph shows the Cinema attendance between 1990 and the present, with projections to 2010.
when a film or an image is projected onto a screen or wall
the projection of moving images
Talks and slide projection could be interesting for older people but not so exciting for younger people, who would prefer some more "active" entertainment like visits to discos, barbecues, quiz night, karaoke nights, fancy-dress parties and other similar happenings.
to make something last longer
Eating a good diet can prolong your life.
However, nobody expects the strike to be prolonged for more than a week.
continuing for a long time
a prolonged illness
Avoid prolonged exposure to the sun.
What surprised us was the prolonged delay we had to suffer during our departure from Heathrow.
important or famous
a prominent figure
It starts with two very important works of Albrecht Durer, one of the most prominent painters of his time, not only in Germany.
very easy to see or notice
New books are displayed in a prominent position at the front of the shop.
A large map of Cyprus holds a prominent place in his store.
to say that you will certainly do something or that something will certainly happen
She promised to write to me every week.
He promised faithfully to call me every week.
Paul promised me that he'd cook dinner tonight.
"I'll come round and see you every day," she promised.
I promise that I will cover the work that you've done in class and I will send it to you the day after.
to say that you will certainly give something to someone
They promised us a reward.
Grandma's ring was promised to me.
Her parents promised her a new car if she passed her exams.
And as a good friend, he has promised me an invitation to the wedding.
If something promises to be good, exciting, etc., people expect that it will be good, exciting, etc.
It promises to be a really exciting game.
I'm looking forward to starting this trip with you and Chris. It promises to be very exciting!
when you say that you will certainly do something
I'll tidy my things away tonight - and that's a promise!
I'm not sure I can do it so I won't make any promises.
Don't forget your promise to not just visit but stay at my place.
to do/not do what you said that you would do
If I make a promise, I like to keep it.
In addition, you didn't keep your promise.
likely to be very good or successful in the future
a promising student
a promising start to the game
Once a promising football player starts his career he becomes an attractive "thing" to sponsors and football clubs.
to give someone a more important job in the same organization
If I'm not promoted within the next two years, I'm going to change jobs.
She's just been promoted to senior sales rep.
She invited me to a party because her husband had been promoted in his job.
to advertise something
The band is promoting their new album.
At that moment I and a large number of people behind me discovered that I was talking to a person made out of wax. It was there to promote the museum.
to encourage something to happen or develop
to promote peace
It has long been known that regular exercise promotes all-round good health.
Greenpeace works to promote awareness of the dangers that threaten our planet today.
A notable exception is the advertising of so-called "slow-food" restaurants, which promote a healthy lifestyle.
activities to advertise something
a sales promotion
They're giving away free T-shirts as a special promotion.
Obviously as sales manager he'll be very involved in the promotion and marketing of the product.
There are different kinds of jobs people do during the festival, e.g. some organisational work, doing promotion for the different events or selling tickets for the concerts.
when someone is given a more important job in the same organization
Did Steve get the promotion he wanted?
The job offers excellent promotion prospects.
I would like to congratulate you on your promotion.
when you encourage something to happen or develop
the promotion of a healthy lifestyle
I would like an education more based on the needs of the country, but not only on the economic ones but also on the spiritual ones, such as the development of a cultural identity, the promotion of the arts, and the encouragement of an ecologically friendly way of producing wealth for the country as a whole.
done or acting quickly and without waiting, or arriving at the correct time
prompt payment
a prompt reply
His prompt action certainly saved my life.
I look forward to your prompt reply.
to make someone decide to say or do something
What prompted you to say that?
I don't know what prompted him to leave.
What really touched my heart and prompted me to write this letter was the recently published series of articles about favourite possessions.
quickly, without delay, or at the arranged time
We'll have to leave fairly promptly if we want to catch that train.
We try to answer readers' letters as promptly as we can.
She promised she'd keep it secret and promptly went and told Ben!
It provides a business lunch which is not very expensive and is served promptly.
to often do something or suffer from something, especially something bad
I'm prone to headaches.
They are prone to making lots of mistakes which they later learn from.
often having accidents/injuries, etc.
My son is very accident-prone.
Why not take advantage of their mistakes if it will mean that our lives will become less accident-prone?
a word which is used instead of a noun or a noun phrase
Pronouns are often used to refer to a noun that has already been mentioned.
'She', 'it' and 'who' are all examples of pronouns.
to make the sound of a letter or word
How do you pronounce your surname?
She pronounced his name so badly he didn't even recognise it.
Sade, pronounced shah-day, is a singer.
During the lesson many foreign students discover how to pronounce words in English.
how words are pronounced
Mario's English pronunciation is excellent.
There are two different pronunciations of this word.
My teacher is a friendly young man called Peter. He comes from Scotland and this means that his accent and pronunciation are quite different.
a fact or a piece of information that shows something exists or is true
She showed us her passport as proof of her identity.
Do they have any proof that it was Hampson who stole the goods?
Keep your receipt as proof of purchase.
The smile of a child is the best proof of the utility of zoos.
information or ideas, which are often false, that an organization prints or broadcasts to make people agree with what it is saying
political propaganda
It is clear that photographs, just as TV, can show the truth while at the same time concealing it. ... It is a sign of the degree of democracy in a society, whether they act as reliable witnesses or as tools of propaganda.
correct or suitable
the proper way to do something
Please put those books back in the proper place.
If you're going to walk those sort of distances you need proper walking boots.
He is unable to speak proper English.
real and satisfactory
his first proper job
I've had sandwiches but I haven't eaten a proper meal.
I had to change my previous profession (civil engineer) as I couldn't find a proper job.
correctly, or in a satisfactory way
It's still not working properly.
I'm not properly dressed for this sort of weather.
Come on, Evie, speak properly - you're not a baby any more!
Unfortunately my bicycle is not working properly, so I was just wondering if I could borrow yours?
a word or group of words that is the name of a person or place and always begins with a capital letter
'London' is a proper noun.
objects that belong to someone
lost property
The club does not accept responsibility for loss of or damage to club members' personal property.
Children need to be taught to have respect for other people's property.
When I realized that I had lost it, I went to the lost property point in the shopping centre to ask about it, but they couldn't do anything for me.
a building or area of land
He owns a number of properties in the centre of London.
The notice said 'Private Property, Keep Off.'
Every shopkeeper and houseowner should maintain their property, looking after gardens and plants that surround it, trying to keep rubbish out of sight.
a part of a total number or amount
Children make up a large proportion of the world's population.
The class consists of men and women in roughly equal proportions.
A significant proportion of the respondents (80%) said that they are not pleased with dangerous roads and the queues during the rush-hours and they also encounter difficulties in finding a safe house to rent.
If something is out of proportion, it is much bigger or smaller than it should be, when compared to other things.
The punishment is completely out of proportion to the crime.
If you were doing it to make a profit, I could understand, but for a library it is just out of proportion and I even believe more people could be attracted if the prices decrease.
If something changes in proportion to another thing, it changes to the same degree as that thing.
Your tax payment increases in proportion to your salary.
One aspect of the question is the fact that a sportsman's salary is supposedly not in proportion to the number of hours he works.
a suggestion for a plan
a proposal to raise taxes
The proposal for a new sports hall has been rejected.
There has been an angry reaction to the government's proposal to reduce unemployment benefit.
There was anger at the proposal that a UN peacekeeping force should be sent to the area.
I would like you to consider my proposal and give me your response as soon as possible.
when someone asks someone to marry them
As a young woman, she received several proposals.
After this, things went perfectly well, and Mary accepted his proposal to marry him.
to suggest a plan or action
I propose that we delay our decision until we have more information.
proposed changes
I think the most important thing is that you understand our language. So I propose that you attend a school for the first two months.
to intend to do something
They propose to cycle across Europe.
I propose to build a new hotel following the traditional architecture of the village.
to ask someone to marry you
He proposed to me on my birthday.
First he caught everybody's attention and straightaway he proposed marriage to her.
suggested as an idea or plan
The proposed road would cut right through the forest.
I will need information about the price of the proposed vacation.
an offer or suggestion, usually in business
an attractive/interesting proposition
If you will consider this proposition positively, then we would like to produce a deal for you to become our only importer in Britain.
to officially accuse someone of committing a crime in a court of law, or (of a lawyer) to try to prove that a person accused of committing a crime is guilty of that crime
Shoplifters will be prosecuted.
He was prosecuted for fraud.
The victim has said that she will not prosecute.
Moreover, if our only worry is making money, we could be tempted to get involved in black market business, but that way we would run the risk of being prosecuted and brought to justice.
the lawyers who are prosecuting someone in a court of law
The prosecution will begin presenting evidence today.
As the counsel for the prosecution insisted on a severe punishment, John was sent to serve his sentence in one of the worst jails in the country.
when someone is prosecuted
The incident resulted in a number of prosecutions.
Most experts in the field agree that travelling may help to overcome nationalistic tendencies, which are present in many countries, far better than such short-term measures as prosecution by law.
a lawyer who prosecutes people
Prosecutors allege that she knew about the plan.
However, it was after her graduation that her life began to change: she sat for a Public Examination in order to become a prosecutor.
the possibility that something good might happen in the future
Is there any prospect of the weather improving?
Job prospects for graduates in the sciences are good.
We've been warned that there is a prospect of flooding due to the heavy rains.
With our effort, I am sure things will be realized and the prospect is bright.
the possibility of being successful
The course will improve his career prospects.
I could learn many things from picking fruit and vegetables and improve my job prospects.
the idea of something that will happen in the future
We face the prospect of having to start all over again.
I'm very excited at the prospect of seeing her again.
They were bewildered at the prospect of beginning a new life there.
Prospective buyers, employers, parents, etc., are not yet buyers, employers, parents, etc., but are expected to be in the future.
We hold an open day for prospective students.
The page is useful for prospective students as well as for people who are already studying and plan to go abroad.
If a person or business prospers, they do well, especially financially.
The government needs to create conditions where trade can prosper.
The standards have to be readjusted to give the old and experienced members of society a new role in which they can prosper and still contribute to the benefit of all.
when a person or group of people is successful, usually by earning a lot of money
Our nation's prosperity comes from oil.
It is a typical tradition and the rice means prosperity for the couple.
successful, usually by earning a lot of money
He is a prosperous car dealer.
Of course our employees will also benefit from the company becoming more prosperous.
someone whose job is having sex with people
There were a lot of prostitutes working in the area.
Some people say they are prostitutes while others deny it.
the main character in a play, film, or story
The protagonist is a singer named 'Jed'.
The male protagonist, Anatolij Wonoseltsen, a divorcee with two children, abandoned by his wife, is hoping to get a promotion to be able to provide for the family.
to keep someone or something safe from something dangerous or bad
clothing that protects you against the cold
It's important to protect your skin from the harmful effects of the sun.
Public pressure to protect the environment is strong and growing.
Hats protect me from the sun (my skin is very sensitive to the sun) and they are also pretty cool.
the act of protecting or state of being protected
This coat doesn't provide any protection against the rain.
Their tent gave/offered little protection against the severe storm.
New legislation still does not offer adequate protection for many endangered species.
I prefer to be accommodated in a log cabin because it gives better protection against the weather and I can sleep much better in it.
giving protection
protective clothing
a protective mask
Besides, I don't want to wear any protective head-gear, which all the riders are obliged to wear.
wanting to protect someone from criticism, hurt, danger, etc. because you like them
It's easy to be too protective towards/of your children.
She's fiercely protective of the man she married 29 years ago.
She is very protective with children in her custody and can get very aggressive to protect them from strangers or dogs.
food such as meat, cheese, fish, or eggs that is necessary for the body to grow and be strong
Nuts and fish both contain protein.
In miso soup, a lot of ingredients which have protein are used, and protein is a useful element to keep our body healthy.
when people show that they disagree with something by standing somewhere, shouting, carrying signs, etc.
a public protest against the war
a peaceful/violent protest
I believe that we could force the authorities to do something for us by joining together in a very big protest.
to show that you disagree with something by standing somewhere, shouting, carrying signs, etc.
They're on strike to protest against job losses.
Students were protesting about cuts to the education budget.
Undoubtedly, the human rights' defenders would protest.
to say something forcefully or complain about something
A lot of people protested about the new working hours.
They protested bitterly to their employers, but they wouldn't listen.
A young girl was crying, protesting that she didn't want to leave her mother.
I'd also like to point out that although the service is pleasant, it's a bit slow, which often makes the customers impatient and leads them to protest.
feeling very pleased about something you have done, something you own, or someone you know
She was so proud of her son.
I'm very proud to be involved in this project.
Anyway I am so happy to hear that. I'm really proud of you.
to not be able to do something, especially ask for help, because you are too embarrassed
He's too proud to ask you for any money.
She didn't want people to see her like this. She was too proud, too proud...
in a way that shows you are pleased about something you have done, something you own, or someone you know
He proudly held out his trophy for us to admire.
There were photographs of all her children proudly displayed on the mantelpiece.
"Congratulations Alison!" her mum said proudly.
to show that something is true
Can you prove that you weren't there?
They proved him innocent/guilty.
That theory was proved false.
He's so aggressive - it's as if he's always trying to prove something.
It was really stressful because I wanted to prove that the level of my English is high enough for this class but I was too nervous to speak correctly.
to show a particular result or quality after a period of time
The operation proved a complete success.
The new treatment has proved to be very effective.
John proved to be a good friend and I really thank him for what he did for me.
to show that you are good at something
I wish he'd stop trying to prove himself all the time.
Two weeks ago his coach had told him: "Morisson, you're going to play No.9 on Saturday against United, and it's going to be your last chance to prove yourself."
a famous phrase or sentence which gives you advice
an ancient Chinese proverb
A well-known proverb says: "You should eat to live and not live to eat".
to give someone something that they need
This booklet provides useful information/advice about local services.
All meals are provided throughout the course.
The restaurant provides excellent service.
if, or only if
He's welcome to come along, provided that he behaves himself.
Finally, provided that you have some money to spend, you can always have a great time strolling through shopping halls.
someone who provides something
an Internet service provider
The bank is now a major provider of financial services to industry.
Until her illness she was the main provider in the family.
I would like to complain about my gas and electricity provider Energy Plus.
one of the large areas which some countries are divided into because of the type of government they have
the Canadian province of Alberta
Actually, it was never my intention to cross North America from coast to coast, but to travel around some cities in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
relating to or typical of the provinces
a provincial town
provincial attitudes
Tolerance and affection were there too, but living in a provincial part of France, I remember quite a number of old-fashioned thoughts that I disliked strongly.
when something is provided
The provision of good public transport will be essential for developing the area.
Of course there's provision in the plan for population increase.
When designing buildings in this area, you have to make provision against earthquakes.
Following serious complaints from students, I have read through the three proposals given to me regarding provision of food in the institute.
when someone makes you angry
He'll start a fight at the slightest provocation.
He carried out his professional duties with dignity and under the most severe provocation.
to cause a strong and usually angry reaction
to provoke an argument
Her statement has provoked a public outcry.
On their coming back, they show these pictures to their neighbours to provoke the feelings of jealousy mixed with admiration.
when something is near to something else
What's good about this hotel is its proximity to the airport.
In conclusion it can be said that the Schelde is a very interesting river which gives its surrounding citizens quite a few positive and negative reasons for living in its proximity.
a doctor who is trained in psychiatry
He was referred to a psychiatrist.
He is a psychiatrist, she is doing her degree in geology.
relating to the human mind and feelings
psychological problems
He claims that the constant aircraft noise has a bad psychological effect on the residents.
We are concerned with the physical and psychological well-being of our employees.
To sum up, taking up team sports is important for school children as they are provided with important psychological and social experiences vital for their lives.
in a way that is connected to a person's psychological state
psychologically disturbed
It makes us like robots and we feel bad psychologically, because we want to be different and free to wear what we want.
someone who studies the human mind and human emotions and behaviour, and how different situations have an effect on them
a child psychologist
an educational psychologist
Some psychologists claim that forcing pupils to study subjects they don't like can be frustrating for them or even reduce their intellectual potential.
the scientific study of the way the human mind works and how it influences behaviour, or the influence of a particular person's character on their behaviour
She studied psychology at Harvard.
a lecturer in psychology
child psychology
the psychology of the soldier
I think it would be a nice experience for me because I am studying psychology.
a place where you can get drinks such as beer and usually food
Do you want to go to the pub after work?
our local pub
a pub lunch
I had dinner in the pub last night.
provided by the government from taxes to be available to everyone
public funds/services/spending
a public library
I've found an advertisement on the noticeboard outside the public library that might interest you.
relating to or involving people in general, rather than being limited to a particular group of people
Public opinion has turned against him.
Is it really in the public interest to publish this information?
We need to increase public awareness of the disease.
The results will not be made public until tomorrow.
We will not go public with the results until tomorrow.
I would like to add that when it comes to public opinion there is a great variety of different points of view - that is why this article, which asserts that ,"performers were second-rate'' seems to be unfair.
an announcement/appearance/statement, etc. that can be seen or heard or known by everyone
The Prime Minister is due to make a public statement later today.
Therefore, Gonzalo never attempted to make a public statement to defend himself and underestimated the harm it could cause to his public image.
to allow everyone to know about something
The government does not plan to make its findings public.
According to the scientific method of research, one should only make a discovery or conclusion public after deep testing and, even after that, this fact should never be taken as the most complete and definitive truth about any given subject.
all ordinary people
The public has a right to know about this.
The palace and its grounds are open to the public during the summer months.
When will the product be available to the general public?
Members of the public were asked about their shopping habits.
That is great, because during this season a lot of towns usually celebrate and have parties in which you can dance, drink, eat and do one of the several activities that they offer to the public.
in a place where other people, especially people you do not know, can hear you and see what you are doing
He shouldn't behave like that in public.
This shyness makes it hard for me to speak in public, or even to go out with my friends as often as I should.
to be famous and often featured in the media
Her new role means that she will be in the public eye.
But being famous also means that you are always in the public eye, which is a major drawback.
a book, magazine, newspaper or document in which information or stories are published
Our latest publication is a magazine for surfers.
Dear Sir, I am taking the opportunity to write to you as I used your publication "The Student Tourist Guidebook" during my last trip to Lampton.
the act of making information or stories available to people in a printed form
The brochure will be ready for publication in September.
Will you arrange the publication of the names of the winners?
When is the publication date?
First, I would like to thank you for the publication of this article.
advertising or information about someone or something in the newspaper, on television, etc.
bad/good publicity
We've planned an exciting publicity campaign with our advertisers.
The pop group's arrival by hot-air balloon was just a publicity stunt.
We could also prepare a special publicity campaign because we want all the people in Britain to know how wonderful our town is.
If something is done publicly, it is done so that everyone can know about it
The company publicly apologized and agreed to contribute some money to charity.
It would be a sound opportunity for our singers to perform their new albums and make their work publicly known.
a system of vehicles such as buses and trains which operate at regular times on fixed routes and are used by the public
Greater investment in public transport would keep more cars off the roads.
I travelled by public transport.
to make information available to people, especially in a book, magazine or newspaper, or to produce and sell a book, magazine or newspaper
She's just had an article published in their weekend supplement.
The Government publishes figures every six months showing how many people are unemployed.
The names of the winners of the competition will be published in June.
She was only 19 when her first novel was published.
My article was published and I received 500 pounds.
a company or person who prepares and prints books, newspapers, magazines, etc.
He works for a publisher in Edinburgh.
I suggest that the music publisher should organise more concerts for us and give us more chances to listen to "real music" not just tapes.
a sweet dish that is usually eaten as the last part of a meal
We've got apple pie for pudding.
a sticky toffee pudding
The pudding was delicious.
to take hold of something and move it towards you
He pulled the box across the floor to the door.
He pulled her out of the water.
A small child was pulling at her sleeve.
Don't pull Ellie's hair!
The man that pulled me into the house had a familiar face but I didn't recognise him.
to take hold of something and use physical effort to remove it from somewhere
I pulled the plug out.
He pulled off his sweater.
I spent the morning pulling up the weeds in the flowerbeds.
My tv is broken because of my little sister: she pulled out the cable.
to take hold of something and use effort to move your body forwards or up
She pulled herself up the stairs, holding onto the rail.
Rollo and the police ran after him and then Rollo fired wounding Harry, who started to pull himself up the stairs to a manhole above his head and then he died.
to injure a muscle by stretching it too much
I've pulled a muscle in my leg.
to work as hard as other people in a group
The rest of the team complained that Sarah wasn't pulling her weight.
For instance, before your kin get all nice and comfortable, you could ask them to pull their weight around the house by doing a few jobs.
to secretly use the influence that you have over important people to get something or to help someone
I may be able to pull a few strings, if you need the money urgently.
This isn't secret: I thought some of these ideas might be of interest and perhaps an article about them in your newspaper would pull the necessary strings at the City Hall to produce some very much needed changes.
a warm piece of clothing which covers the top of your body and is pulled on over your head
a black woolly pullover
My favourite pullover is one with small hearts.
the regular movement of blood through your body when your heart is beating
She put her fingers on my wrist to take my pulse (=count the number of beats per minute).
My pulse rate is 70.
Nowadays, stressful things are all around you. They have bad effects on your work, private life or education, as well as sometimes causing you health problems such as high blood pressure, an irregular pulse, etc.
to be/stay familiar with the most recent changes or improvements
The situation changes daily, so you've got to keep your finger on the pulse.
It wouldn't be clever to hire people who are completely ignorant about music and they must constantly keep their finger on the pulse of the music industry.
a piece of equipment which is used to cause liquid, air or gas to move from one place to another
a water/bicycle pump
a fuel/petrol pump
You need to connect an oxygen pump supplying oxygen which is required by goldfish.
when you hit someone or something with your fist
a punch on the nose
He gave me a punch and we started to fight.
to hit someone or something with your fist
He punched him in the stomach.
She started crying and she punched me!
the use of punctuation marks in writing so that people can see when a sentence begins and finishes, that something is a question, etc.
His letter was completely without punctuation.
to make someone suffer because they have done something bad
Those responsible for these crimes must be brought to court and punished.
He punished the class by giving them extra work.
I'll be punished by my parents, because I told them a lie.
when someone is punished
He had to stay in his bedroom as a punishment for fighting.
Many people think that the death penalty is too severe a punishment for any crime.
I was punished, nearly expelled, but Pat didn't receive any punishment.
a child at school
a second-year pupil
a primary-school pupil
The school has over 400 pupils.
I hurt myself one week ago so I can't help you, but pupils can install chairs and the furniture.
a young dog
a litter of puppies
I was on the beach when my mobile phone rang. I knew that my mother was going to tell me that my puppy was dead, so I didn't answer the call.
to buy
Tickets must be purchased two weeks in advance.
She purchased her first house with the money.
Of course I was able to purchase a second-hand one but I thought that it was a good investment to have a new computer with up-to-date software.
something that you buy
How do you wish to pay for your purchases?
a major purchase
The other day I was standing in a large department store waiting to pay for a couple of films for my camera when the assistant announced that the computer which controlled the till had stopped working. So there we were: a shop full of customers, money at the ready, waiting to make our purchases.
the act of buying something
New restrictions have been placed on the purchase of guns.
A house is the most expensive purchase that most people ever make.
No purchase is necessary for you to enter this competition.
This product may be frozen. If required, freeze on day of purchase.
Report on the purchase of English videos
A pure substance is not mixed with anything else.
pure gold
a pure cotton shirt
Its domes are made of pure copper, inside there's a big bell called "Zygmunt".
clean and healthy
The mountain air was wonderfully pure.
Tap water is never chemically pure.
The weather is sunny, the gentle breeze is pure and fresh.
used to emphasize that a feeling, quality, or state is completely and only that thing
pure coincidence
Her face had a look of pure delight.
It switches your mind off and stretches all your muscles at the same time. It's pure refreshment!
only
She married him purely for his money.
And we had to arrange our social programme purely by ourselves.
the quality of being pure
air purity
The beauty, purity and power of Chinese poems is hard to resist.
of a dark reddish blue colour
purple plums
a dark purple bruise
It's pink with purple stars.
a dark reddish blue colour
Purple is my favourite colour.
The evening sky was full of purples and reds.
Hi Robbie, You know, my favourite colour is purple but I like pink too, so I'll paint one wall purple and another pink.
why you do something or why something exists
The main purpose of the meeting is to discuss the future of the company.
The drug may be legalized for medical purposes.
a multi-purpose kitchen knife
I think the purpose of it was to make the atmosphere more relaxed.
intentionally
I didn't do it on purpose, it was an accident.
I didn't do it on purpose; it was dark and I just walked into it.
to have a use
These small village shops serve a very useful purpose.
They introduced meetings at Miss Kenton's parlour which were held every evening and served the purpose of discussing house running.
the feeling of knowing what you want to do
He seems to have lost all sense of purpose.
Emotional stability, a sense of purpose and direction in life, true and deep relationships with the people around us, all these issues are equally, if not more, important than economic security.
in all the most important ways
To all intents and purposes, the project was a disaster.
To all intents and purposes, the qualities needed to achieve success are based on the same ideas.
a small container for money, usually used by a woman
a leather purse
Ram, I have left my purse at your home.
If you pursue a plan, activity, or situation, you try to do it or achieve it, usually over a long period of time.
She decided to pursue a career in television.
We suspect that our boss is pursuing a hidden agenda.
I will be shortly pursuing a degree course in computing and I would like to obtain first the entry qualification that is required for the degree course.
when you try to achieve a plan, activity, or situation, usually over a long period of time
the pursuit of pleasure
He left his native country in pursuit of freedom.
Nevertheless, despite these claims, the primary motivation for any self-respecting athlete is the pursuit of excellence, attaining cutting-edge skills in their sport.
to move someone or something by pressing them with your hands or body
Can you help me move this table? You push and I'll pull.
The window sticks - you have to push hard to open it.
I tried to push the door open but it was stuck.
Could you push that door shut, please?
A boy had pushed her over in the playground.
Someone pushed me into the water.
to move somewhere by moving someone or something away from you
I'm sorry - I didn't mean to push in front of you.
She pushed through the crowd.
He pushed past the waiting journalists, refusing to speak to them.
They pushed their way to the front of the queue.
to press something
If you push this button, the seat goes back.
I was feeling very angry when I pushed the answer button.
to try hard to achieve something or to make someone do something
Local residents are pushing for the road to be made wider.
We had to push them to accept our terms, but they finally agreed to the deal.
Governments should push young artists to get involved in their work.
to make yourself work very hard in order to achieve something
She really pushed herself when she was at school.
Don't push yourself too hard and remember to drink more water.
to try to make someone do something that they do not want to do
My mother pushed me into having ballet lessons.
The biggest help though was my parents who were really understanding and didn't push me too hard into learning English and that why I succeeded.
when you move someone or something by pressing them with your hands or body
Get on the swing and I'll give you a push.
I gave the door a hard push, but it still wouldn't open.
The door was open, so I gave it a push.
encouragement to make someone do something
I'm sure he'll go, he just needs a little push that's all.
I knew before what I was capable of doing but I really needed a push.
If you say that something can be done if push comes to shove, you mean that it can be done if the situation becomes so bad that you have to do it.
If push comes to shove, we'll just have to sell the car.
There are several options you can choose from when push comes to shove.
behaving in an unpleasant way by trying too much to get something or to make someone do something
a pushy salesman
It's bad enough that pushy parents try to turn their children into sports or music stars for the only reason to fulfil their own, never-achieved ambitions.
to move something to a place or position
She put her bag on the table.
Put your clothes in the cupboard.
She put her hands over her eyes.
I put my arm around him.
Where have you put the keys?
My parents bought many books for me, and I put them in my room.
to write something
She puts her name in all her books.
I've put the date of the party in my diary.
He asked me to put more information in about the costs.
Could you put your signature here?
Please can you help me put my name on the list.
to cause someone or something to be in a particular condition or situation
What's put you in such a bad mood?
I'm not prepared to put my children at risk.
I'm looking forward to putting my ideas into practice.
He's putting me under pressure to change my mind.
The terrorists were put on trial six years after the bombing.
If we put my plan into practice, we can help to resolve the city's financial problems and reduce local taxes.
to cause something to stop
We must put an end to this violence.
That is all I can say about what I have seen on my last visit to the zoo, and in my opinion the authorities have to do something in order to put an end to it.
to try to force someone to do something
They're putting pressure on me to make a decision.
She puts a lot of pressure on me and believes that I can do it in the same way as she did.
to cause someone to be in a difficult situation
When two of your best friends argue it puts you in a very difficult position.
I know that I will put you in a difficult position with my absence but I must leave.
to give your full attention to something and try very hard to do it
You could win if you put your mind to it.
With all the technology available, the task is actually quite simple if you put your mind to it.
to do something in reality that has been planned or talked about
Next month we will have a chance to put these ideas into practice.
How do you intend to put these proposals into practice?
The doctors cannot really put all their skills into practice.
to end something unpleasant
We must put a stop to the violence.
Maybe these new activities (video - videogames), which are quite distracting, are at the same time so addictive that youngsters find it hard to put a stop to it.
to say something using particular words
I need to tell him I don't like it but I don't know how to put it.
Although I agree that there are awful programmes on, I think a total ban would be, how shall I put it, exaggerated.
to kill someone as a punishment
She was put to death for her beliefs.
He has become dangerous for Jack and must thus be eliminated, put to death.
to understand exactly why a situation is the way it is
Something was wrong, but I couldn't put my finger on it.
Something sinister about the picture, he felt, but he couldn't put his finger on what made him think this.
to consider someone or something to be the most important thing
Most couples put their children first when sorting out their problems.
On the other hand, we forget about our personality and the worth that we have as individuals; we put our wishes first, rather than what we really need in life.
to tell someone in a strong way that they must do something or must stop doing something
I decided to put my foot down with my staff and insist that they do not send personal emails in work time.
Finally, I would like to appeal to other readers of the 'Cyprus Weekly', who might even be living near my area, to put your foot down and apply any pressure you can on people who can do something about the situation.
to say something silly or embarrassing, without intending to
I really put my foot in it with your mum - I didn't know she was a teacher herself.
I had really put my foot in it by telling Richard that it would better for him not to come to the party.
to relax, especially by sitting with your feet supported above the ground
Put your feet up for half an hour before the kids get home.
You have done your work and now you can put your feet up.
to let someone know that they are not as important as they think they are
He was rather arrogant, but the other kids soon put him in his place.
to not use or deal with something now, but keep it for a later time
She put the papers to one side, intending to read them later.
to ask someone a question which is difficult or embarrassing to answer at that time
Sorry to put you on the spot, but I really need an answer.
a game or activity in which you have to put pieces together or answer questions using skill
to do/solve a puzzle
a jigsaw puzzle
a crossword puzzle
My favourite present is the jigsaw puzzle.
a situation which is very difficult to understand
Scientists have been trying to solve this puzzle for years.
As I watched the slow, emerging awareness of humanity, by a chthonic spirit (that of Death itself), coming to terms with the vast contradictions and the harsh, but also bliss-endowed human nature, the soft piano melody internalizing both a child's curiosity before the unknown, as well as an adult's awakening to what his life amounts to, I was thrilled, but also deeply saddened, for I felt that from worthy, meaning-filled fragments of the puzzle that life is, my own piecing together was incomplete: I could not prevent a small sob, which was, almost simultaneously, echoed.
to make someone confused because they do not understand something
I was puzzled by what he said.
Dear Fiona, I was really touched by your concern regarding our daily life at the moment but I was also quite puzzled.
confused because you do not understand something
He had a puzzled look on his face.
I'm a bit puzzled that I haven't heard from Liz for so long.
To the editor, I am puzzled by the report which appeared on yesterday's page 2, concerning the Westfield Music Festival.
soft loose clothing which is worn in bed and consists of trousers and a type of shirt
I need a new pair of pyjamas.
The horrible embarrassing moment was about to happen. Smiling, the clerk said :"Sorry madams, you are in pyjamas"
a shape with a square base and four triangular sides that meet to form a point at the top
The stones were shaped into a pyramid.
The King was living in his great palace with a view of the biggest pyramid in the village, smaller ones were situated around it.
attractive or unusual in an old-fashioned way
a quaint little village
The quaint cafes would be replaced by McDonald's and the charm of the place would be lost.
something that you get when you are successful in an exam or course of study
You'll never get a good job if you don't have any qualifications.
Does he have any legal/teaching qualifications?
Requirements for the job include a qualification in nursing.
To improve my qualifications, I joined the Cambridge Business class.
success in getting into a competition
England's qualification for the World Cup.
The video tells how particular national teams got through their qualification for finals and then presents the most interesting games that took place in Italy '92.
a skill, quality, etc. that you need in order to be able to do something, especially a job
The main qualification for this job is the ability to get on with people.
An international profile is one of the most emphasized qualifications.
having passed the exams needed for a particular job
a newly qualified teacher
Tim is now a qualified architect.
I'd like to inform you that the courses are very interesting because of the qualified teachers in this college.
having the skills, qualities or experience that you need in order to do something
John is really the best qualified to make that decision.
I'm not really qualified to give advice on the subject.
I don't think that anyone else in my country is qualified to take over his seat.
to pass the exams that allow you to do a particular job
She hopes to qualify as a lawyer at the end of the year.
He qualified in medicine in 1992.
This course qualifies you to teach in any secondary school.
If you qualify for something, you are allowed to do it or have it.
To qualify for the competition you need to be over 18.
She doesn't qualify for maternity leave because she hasn't been in her job long enough.
If you think I qualify for the job, you can contact me at the address written above.
to succeed in getting into a competition or in reaching a particular stage in a competition
Nigeria were the first team to qualify for the World Cup.
Both sides failed to qualify.
I left the stadium disappointed, fearing that Portugal would not qualify for the World Championships once more.
how good or bad something is
good/high quality
poor/low quality
The air quality in this area is terrible.
All we are asking for is a decent quality of life.
It's good quality and can play any types of DVD.
when something is very good or well made
I was impressed by the quality of their clothes.
They're more expensive than I expected but I prefer quality to quantity.
a part of someone's character
leadership qualities
He has a lot of good qualities but being organized isn't one of them.
She's a woman of great personal qualities.
I don't think he has the right qualities to be a teacher.
Moreover, I have other qualities such as politeness, and I feel pleased when helping people, thus I am capable of looking after members of the public.
very good
We only sell quality products in this store.
There are many good shops which sell quality products and they are not that expensive.
the amount or number of something
Police found a large/small quantity of drugs in his possession.
We consume vast quantities of sugar in this country.
They are now developing ways to produce the vaccine in large quantities.
This recipe is only for four, so I usually do double the quantity if I'm cooking for my family.
They're more expensive than I expected but I prefer quality to quantity.
a lot of something
I'm just amazed at the quantity of food that gets eaten.
What surprised me was the quantity of incorrect figures reported in your article.
someone or something that you do not know and so you cannot be certain about
The road conditions in that area are a bit of an unknown quantity.
As mentioned above, the laser beam was an unknown quantity even to its inventor and those who contributed to its enhancement.
an argument
She had a quarrel with her neighbour.
They had a quarrel about/over money a few months back.
Sometimes, we can have quarrels with our parents who refuse to support our ideas.
to argue
I was always quarrelling with my brother.
In spite of that, I found it difficult to forgive her as she had hurt my feelings; that's why the only thing I could tell her since we had quarrelled was: "It serves you right, I'll hate you for the rest of your life!"
a period of 15 minutes before or after the hour
It's (a) quarter to three.
We're leaving at (a) quarter past six.
The classes start at a quarter past six and end at a quarter past seven.
one of four equal or almost equal parts of something; ¼
He cut the orange into quarters.
I waited a quarter of an hour for her.
Under a quarter of people questioned said that they were happily married.
My house is situated a mile and three-quarters from here.
I really enjoy shopping for clothes and spend a quarter of my monthly salary for a year in shopping for jeans alone.
a part of a town, often where people from a particular country or religion live
the Jewish quarter
It will surely add to the development of the Podgoize quarter but also will sustain the development of all the little shops in this area.
a woman who rules a country because she was born into a royal family, or a woman who is married to a king
Queen Victoria
The Queen is meeting the Prime Minister today.
You can visit the castle of Isabel II, a Spanish queen.
a question
If you have any queries about your treatment, the doctor will answer them.
If you have any further queries, please contact me on 01-234567.
an attempt to get something or do something difficult
the quest for truth
He has begun his quest to become the Conservative Party's first Asian MP.
This stimulation is essential in our quest for spiritual and emotional well-being and exerts a profound effect on our psyche.
a sentence or phrase used to find out information
Ask and answer questions with your partner.
The police asked me questions all day.
If you have any questions about the scheme, do ask me.
"So where is the missing money?" - "That's a good question."
Our teacher talks to us and gives us some questions.
in an exam, a problem that tests a person's knowledge or ability
Answer/Do as many questions as you can.
In the e-mail were the exam questions, and I felt very happy because I'll pass the test!
a situation or problem that needs to be dealt with or considered
This raises the question of teacher pay.
Two important questions arise from this debate.
Then it raises an important question: "Do museums provide enough to interest young people?"
doubt or uncertainty
There's no question that this was an accidental fire.
There's no question about whose fault it is.
Whether children are reading fewer books is open to question.
This latest report calls into question the safety of the drug.
His ability has never been in question.
There's no question that it was absolutely great!
used for saying what the most important issue is in a situation
Someone needs to be here - it's a question of who would be the best person.
The choice is a question of price.
the person or thing that is being discussed
He claims that he was in the pub with his girlfriend on the night in question.
While this is not necessarily false, it should be borne in mind that the events in question are by no means boring or uninteresting.
If something is out of the question, it is not possible or not allowed.
Providing more money is out of the question.
Walking home was out of the question since that would have taken even longer.
to ask a question
It was left to Grazia to pose the question of how the project was to be funded.
For instance, you can pose a question concerning music to your listeners and the person who is going to call first to answer - correctly of course - will gain a small sum of money.
to ask a person about something, especially officially
Several men were questioned by police yesterday about the burglary.
68% of those questioned in the survey thought noise levels had increased.
A total of 60 per cent of those questioned suggested that we should find sponsorship for all activities. 30 per cent of those questioned said that there are not enough seats in the reception area.
to feel or express doubt about something
I'm not for a moment questioning your decision.
I'm just questioning whether we need the extra staff.
It may sound funny, but mud, gravel and snow lying on the school's floors is not a nice sight, so we change our shoes without questioning that rule.
possibly not true or correct
It is highly questionable whether this drug has any benefits at all.
However, it is questionable whether this is possible.
not honest or not legal
He's being investigated for questionable business practices.
I am a policeman, in fact, or rather I used to be one until I was ejected from the department because of questionable procedures to enforce the law.
the ? punctuation mark that is put at the end of a phrase or sentence to show that it is a question
There is still a large question mark over the issue of pre-colonial taxation.
a set of questions asked of a large number of people to discover information about a subject
Residents have been sent questionnaires about their homes and energy use.
I had to fill in a questionnaire about myself.
a line of people waiting for something, one behind the other
Are you in the queue?
There's a long queue for tickets.
There's a queue to get in.
There was a long queue of traffic stretching down the road.
If you want tickets you'll have to join the queue.
So we can buy the tickets and the popcorn and relax, without having to wait in a big queue.
to wait in a line of people, often to buy something
We had to queue for three hours to get in.
Dozens of people were queueing up to get tickets.
I queued for at least an hour because the ticket machine broke down.
doing something fast
I tried to catch him but he was too quick for me.
He was very quick to answer.
Call me right now at my home: 5555-9684. Be quick!!!
lasting a short time
Can I ask you a quick question?
I had a quick coffee and left the house.
I only had time for a quick look at the paper this morning.
Could I have a quick word with you, Annie?
Dear Teacher, This is just a quick note to apologize for missing tomorrow's class.
at a fast speed
I quickly shut the door.
She walks very quickly.
The bike is very colourful, and it goes very quickly.
after only a very short time
These people need to be treated as quickly as possible.
He quickly realized she wasn't telling the truth.
Give it to me as quickly as you can.
making little or no noise
Can you be quiet, please?
Could you keep quiet while I'm on the phone?
It's so quiet without the kids here.
She spoke in a quiet voice so as not to wake him.
But now everything must change - after 10 pm we must be quiet.
without much activity or excitement
a quiet and peaceful little village
It was a quiet wedding, with just a few friends and relations.
Business is quiet during the holidays.
I fancy a quiet night in.
My house is near the hospital and it is in a very quiet area.
If someone is quiet, they talk very little.
He was a shy, quiet man.
I was a bit worried about her - she seemed very quiet.
He's a quiet person but I'm that too.
to not talk about something that is secret
It might be wise to keep this quiet for a while.
They tried to keep it quiet but, somehow, half the village knew about the news in a few days.
when there is little or no noise
She needs a bit of peace and quiet.
At least if you were working in a museum, you would probably have some peace and quiet.
making little or no noise
"Don't worry," she said quietly.
They were talking quietly and just before getting into the car, they kissed.
doing something without much noise or activity
He sat quietly on the sofa, reading a book.
It was about eight o'clock in the evening, I was watching TV quietly in my living-room when the phone rang.
to leave a job
I hated the work so much that I quit.
Would you quit your job if you inherited lots of money?
Winning let me quit my job and I could afford to study more English than I used to do.
to stop doing something
I'm going to quit smoking.
Quit wasting my time!
Press Q to quit the program.
And, last but not least, quit smoking!
a little or a lot but not completely
"Was the food good?" "Quite good."
She's quite tall but not as tall as her sister.
I quite like watching football.
It's quite a good film.
It is quite expensive.
a large amount or number
They earn quite a lot of money.
Quite a few people complained.
There were quite a lot of people.
a lot
He does quite a bit of travelling.
She's quite a bit older than him.
We spent quite a bit of time going along the beach.
completely
Are you quite sure you want to go?
I'm quite happy to go myself if you'd prefer that.
The two situations are quite different.
I'm quite sure you will love my country, especially the Amazon basins and the biggest rain-forest in the world!
a long time
I hadn’t seen Rebecca in quite a while.
It took quite a while to clean out the garage.
But although I have what you could call "simple" tastes, it takes me quite a while to decide what to buy.
almost but not completely
I'm not quite sure that I understand this.
The colours almost match but not quite.
He didn't get quite enough votes to win.
The student cafe has a welcoming atmosphere and most people said it was nice to sit and to drink coffee there. The only problem is that there are not quite enough tables and chairs for everyone at busy times.
a game or competition in which you answer questions
a television quiz show
My team won the quiz.
a sentence or phrase that is taken out of a book, poem, or play
a quotation from Shakespeare
Women also played an important role in his life, so it might also be a good idea to show pictures of his "muses" framed by quotations from his novels.
the amount that a piece of work will probably cost
Make sure you get a quotation for all the work before they start.
I have attached a current quotation from the retailer who supplies that dining table.
to repeat the words that someone else has said or written
I was quoting from Marx.
Can I quote you on that?
"If they're flexible, we're flexible", the official was quoted as saying.
Let me quote another sentence: "...carefully selected host families".
to give a fact or example to support what you are saying
The minister quoted recent unemployment figures.
We would like to quote some facts to support our points of view.
to say how much a piece of work will cost before you do it
He quoted for replacing the whole roof.
I have spoken to the service department at IKEA and they have quoted me £400 to fix the whole thing back to its original shape.
the repeat of words that someone else has said or written
Use plenty of quotes from her poems in your essay.
My beloved diary included hundreds of quotes and drawings, illustrating my most intimate thoughts.
a document or statement saying how much a piece of work will cost
I got three quotes for the work.
I have already obtained a quote to have the damage repaired.
a small animal with fur and long ears that lives in a hole in the ground
She has a pet rabbit.
I like rabbits very much because their fur is very soft, and white rabbits have pretty red eyes.
a competition in which people run, ride, drive, etc. against each other in order to see who is the fastest
a horse race
She won/lost the race.
Let's have a race!
They're taking part in a race to the top of Ben Nevis.
That's really important because I only have one swimsuit and today I have a swimming race.
one of the groups that people are divided into according to physical characteristics such as colour of skin
people of many different races
Discrimination on grounds of race will not be tolerated.
An increasing number of people in the country are of mixed race.
A student was taught how to lead negotiations with a business partner regardless of their age, nationality, race and culture.
a situation in which people compete against each other for power, control or success
the race for governor
The race for sponsors and TV-minutes has begun.
to compete in a race
He has been racing for over ten years.
I used to race against him when we were boys.
Cycling has also given me the opportunity to race as well as train in Europe and the U.S.
to move somewhere very quickly
I raced over to see what was the matter.
Crying, she raced back to William and together they went home.
relating to people's race
a racial minority
racial discrimination/prejudice
racial conflict/tension
racial equality
It also prevents us from pre-judging foreign people, which is very important in a community where racial discrimination is common.
in a way that is connected to someone's race
racially motivated attacks
He respects people's values and rights and can easily integrate and assert himself in a multi-cultural or racially diversified environment.
the belief that other races of people are not as good as your own, or the unfair treatment of people because they belong to a particular race
The authorities are taking steps to fight/tackle racism in schools.
If we were all tolerant, racial segregation wouldn't exist. Hopefully racism is tending to disappear now.
someone who believes that other races of people are not as good as their own
Their boss was a racist.
That's something we should keep in mind, the next time you meet a racist.
believing that other races are not as good as your own and therefore treating them unfairly
a racist attack
It's even getting worse because of immigration and serious incidents like racist attacks in Germany against Turks or Asian people.
a net fixed tightly to an oval frame with a long handle, used in various sports for hitting a ball
a tennis/squash/badminton racket
I got many presents such as a puppy, a badminton racket and many more things.
a loud noise
The neighbours were making such a racket that we couldn't sleep.
However, my blissful thoughts were suddenly and rudely interupted by the racket going on next door.
a form of energy that comes from a nuclear reaction and that in large amounts can be very dangerous
dangerously high levels of radiation
radiation sickness
It's true that in the last few years we have actually polluted much of our air with smoke or radiation from power plants, but we're working on that.
A radical change is very big and important.
radical reform
Have you ever wondered if tourism can bring radical changes in an area?
believing that there should be big social and political changes
a radical group/movement
a radical proposal
What ... also seems to prevent Lucy from admitting her true feelings towards George is the inhibited and pretentious society within which the characters live, which will not accept a marriage between a middle-class 'lady' and a man from the lower classes, who moreover seems to have what they consider to be radical political views.
someone who supports the idea that there should be big social and political changes
There are several radicals in the government.
While in College, Josephine got involved with a group of radicals who became in a way her second family.
in a way that shows radical change or beliefs
The company has changed radically in recent years.
Barker introduced some radically new ideas.
During the last decades our eating habits have changed radically in Sweden.
a piece of equipment used for listening to radio broadcasts
a car radio
Could you turn the radio on?
I want to sell my radio.
the programmes that you hear when you listen to the radio
We heard him speaking on the radio this morning.
I listen to the radio in the evening.
He likes watching television and listening to the radio.
a system of sending and receiving sound through the air
local radio
a radio station
I'm thinking of calling the radio station to inform them about my situation.
very strong anger that you cannot control
My main feeling was one of rage.
I was frightened because I had never seen him in such a rage before.
He flew into a rage over the smallest mistake.
However, they flew into a rage when one of Paul's friends was poisoned by the food, after having dinner in the hotel restaurant.
to speak or behave in a very angry way
He raged at us for forgetting to order a replacement.
Sobbing and raging she stomped into the bedroom, briskly opened the drawer and flung the framed picture showing them both at sunset on the coast of Fiji into it.
to continue with great force or violence
The battle raged well into the night.
It narrates the story of a group of children evacuated on an island somewhere in the Pacific Ocean while a war is raging elsewhere in Europe.
a sudden attack on a place by soldiers
an air raid
a dawn raid
Back in England, he provided valuable information to the SAS to make the air raids more effective.
a sudden visit to a place by police in order to find someone or something
a police raid to recover illegal weapons
The drugs were found during a police raid on the house.
If soldiers raid a place, they suddenly attack it.
Armed soldiers raided the village.
She had started doing this 15 years ago, when mounted warriors, clad in black armour, had raided the farm she, along with her parents and three older brothers, had lived on.
If the police raid a place, they suddenly visit it in order to find someone or something.
Police raided nine properties in search of the documents.
trains as a method of transport
More goods should be transported by rail.
rail fares/passengers
rail travel
By rail: get off at York station and you can walk from the station. Turn left and the hotel is on your left-hand side.
a bar around or along something which you can hold to stop you from falling
a hand rail
However it could be much more comfortable if there were hand rails in the bathroom and a lower bed.
the system of transport which uses trains, or the metal tracks on which trains run
a railway line/station
the Trans-Siberian railway
I will arrive at the railway station at 21.00.
water that falls from the sky in small drops
heavy/light rain
We had to walk home in the rain.
Rain is forecast for tomorrow.
We got caught in pouring/torrential rain.
I think tomorrow we will have rain.
If it rains, water falls from the sky in small drops.
It's starting to rain.
It rained hard/heavily all night.
It was raining all weekend.
It was raining when I arrived.
a half circle of seven colours that you see in the sky when rain is falling and the sun is shining
We could see a rainbow.
The butterfly's wings were shimmering with all the colours of the rainbow.
In the future, clothes design will be comfortable, practical, nice to look at and in all the colours of the rainbow because people will move around a lot and be happy and therefore require practical and colourful clothing.
a coat that you wear when it is raining
Make sure you take a raincoat.
Tony, I have left my raincoat in your house.
a forest in a tropical area which receives a lot of rain
a tropical rainforest
But the most beautiful place was a rainforest full of exotic trees.
raining a lot
a rainy afternoon
On a rainy night, I was walking down the street with an umbrella.
to lift something to a higher position
Would all those in favour please raise their hands?
She raised the glass to her lips and took a sip.
Many students raised their hands.
to increase an amount or level
The government plan to raise taxes.
They've certainly raised standards at the school.
One solution would be to raise prices.
Another disadvantage could be to raise costs, which includes high taxes, etc.
to start talking about a subject that you want other people to consider
I'd like to raise the subject of staffing levels.
I thought I'd raise the issue with Sally at the meeting.
Then it raises an important question: "Do museums provide enough to interest young people?"
to collect money from different people in order to do a particular thing
They were raising money for charity.
What I liked the most about it is not the fact that we raised a lot of money, but that we enjoyed an amazing show in which I took an active part.
to take care of a child until he or she is completely grown
Her parents died when she was a baby so she was raised by her grandparents.
She raised the family on her own.
I was born and raised on a Greek island called Evia.
to speak loudly and angrily to someone
He never raised his voice at the children.
Not every au-pair family is pleasant. And believe me, mine was giving me hell on earth. ... After I returned home I took some time to learn not to freak out when someone raised his voice and eventually I started to see my time in Germany as a great lesson in life.
to cause emotions or thoughts
Her answers raised doubts in my mind.
I was particularly interested in a part of this article which raised doubts about how useful the knowledge people gain from school is.
to warn someone of a dangerous situation
Her parents raised the alarm when she failed to return home.
A local doctor was the first to raise the alarm about this latest virus.
For them, raising the alarm because of five percent unemployment is an example of so-called 'loony-left thinking'.
a large public meeting in support of something
an election/campaign rally
I am prepared to take part in a rally against this decision and join other concerned readers of your newspaper on the steps of the Town Hall to show full support for retaining the local hospital to serve our community.
a car or motorcycle race
a rally driver
Indeed, it didn't look at all like the vehicles that we see on TV during the Paris-Dakkar rally.
happening, done or chosen by chance rather than according to a plan
random checks/tests/attacks
We asked a random sample/selection of people what they thought.
I will put my remarks in random order.
chosen by chance
Winners will be chosen at random.
The rooms suggested to be filmed have not been chosen at random.
in a random way
The books were randomly arranged on the shelves.
It is based on the survey of the Language Institute's students, who were randomly selected.
a group of different things of the same general type
a range of colours/patterns
We discussed a wide range of subjects.
We stock the full range of model railway accessories.
It's a beautiful place with a wide range of activities.
the amount or number between a particular set of limits
The price range is from $100 to $200.
The product is aimed at young people in the 18-25 age range.
The age range of the club is from eighteen to thirty years old and our club has different nationalities.
a line of hills or mountains
The country is divided by a huge mountain range.
I wish I knew more about the volcanoes, earthquakes, and mountain ranges all over the world.
the distance from which things can be seen, heard, or reached
The soldiers came within firing range.
He was shot at close range.
The radio doesn't work, as you know, and even if it had worked we would be out of range of the nearest radio station.
to have an upper and a lower limit in amount, number, etc.
Dress sizes range from petite to extra large.
Prices range between $50 and $250.
It offers lots of fabulous things ranging from drinks to modern music.
a position in an organization, such as the army, showing someone's importance
senior/high/junior/low rank
He has just been promoted to the rank of captain.
Women were denied a higher rank and their job was limited to mundane tasks.
to have a position in a list which shows things or people in order of importance, or to give someone or something a position on such a list
He ranked number one in the world at the start of the competition.
The city's canals now rank among the world's dirtiest.
From being in an amateur league to ranked top 3 in the world is a considerable achievement.
a type of music in which the words are spoken and there is a strong beat
a rap artist
I like hip-hop, rap, reggae and punk-rock.
to force someone to have sex when they do not want to
She was pulled from the car and raped.
I thought that they wanted to rape me.
the crime of forcing someone to have sex when they do not want to
He had committed several rapes.
He was convicted of rape.
Last month the police caught a man for rape and he confessed to several other crimes.
fast or sudden
The 1990s were a period of rapid change/growth.
With the rapid development of technology, shopping on the Internet is becoming very popular.
quickly or suddenly
Prices have increased rapidly in the last few months.
very unusual
a rare disease/species
a rare occasion/opportunity
It's very rare to see these birds in winter.
There are palms, rare birds, very good food and a wonderful beach.
If meat is rare, it is still red because it has only been cooked for a short time.
a rare steak
I'd like my steak rare, please.
not often
We rarely see each other now.
I rarely have time to read a newspaper.
I rarely go shopping for clothes.
to be unusual
Genuine enthusiasm is a rarity.
Hot meals were a rarity.
the fact that something is not common
Precious stones are valued for their rarity.
Another group of objects would be those that are valuable - or even priceless - because of their rarity.
a group of small, red spots on the skin
an itchy rash
Certain foods give him a rash.
Indeed, everything had worked out very well since I had woken up, not only for the little things such as having your breakfast without spilling your tea on your new suit but also for more serious matters like getting up with a dreadful face or a rash of spots!
done suddenly and without thinking carefully
a rash decision/promise
They had reconciled only some days ago and had made a rash decision to go on holiday with us.
an animal that looks like a large mouse and has a long tail
Rats carry disease.
Last night a rat tasted my feet, so now I'm looking for a poison for rats.
how often something happens, or how many people something happens to
the rate of unemployment
The birth rate has fallen.
The drug has a high success/failure rate.
The topics we have in mind are - why people commit a crime, why the crime rate has risen in Britain, and of course some discussion about your latest novel.
a fixed amount of money given for something
the interest rate
Rates of pay are very low.
I think it would be a good thing to help the restaurant by either giving them a subsidy or lending them money at a low rate.
the speed at which something happens
the patient's heart rate
Our rate of progress is too slow.
The disease was spreading at an alarming rate.
The actual rate of our company's growth demands increasing quality and productivity.
very good, bad, or very bad
a first-rate hotel
For example, our town is famous for its first-rate tennis team, so he could continue his training in tennis here and also do other sports like volleyball and baseketball.
used before saying what will happen if a situation continues in the same way
At this rate we're not going to be there till midnight.
used before saying one fact that is certain in a situation that you are generally not certain about
Well, at any rate we need her to be there.
Nevertheless, at any rate, we would like to see a society with a full and strong workforce working towards stronger economic power.
to judge the quality or ability of someone or something
How do you rate her as a singer?
We did a survey among our members that rated value for money, cost, staff, and the like.
slightly or to a small degree
That's rather a difficult question to answer.
I thought he was rather nice.
It was rather strange to invite me and then not come himself.
She answered the telephone rather sleepily.
I can't come because I feel rather sick.
instead of
I think I'd like coffee rather than tea, if that's okay?
When the weather is too hot to wear jeans, I usually wear a swimsuit rather than shorts.
used to show that you prefer to have or do one thing more than another
I'd much rather go out for a meal than stay in and watch TV.
I would rather not tell him.
I'd rather watch something funny, like a sitcom.
used to change something you have just said and make it more correct
She'll go to London on Thursday, or rather, she will if she has to.
The food - or rather, leftovers - that she gave him was barely enough to feed a baby.
a measurement of how good or popular something or someone is
A high percentage of Americans gave the President a positive rating.
Overall your rating was excellent!
a list of television and radio programmes showing how popular they are
His show did well in the ratings.
Sports would not appear on TV if it was not for a majority of the population wanting to watch it, in fact some sports programmes have the highest ratings of all TV shows.
the relationship between two groups or amounts, which expresses how much bigger one is than the other
The ratio of men to women at the conference was ten to one/10:1.
The school is trying to improve its pupil-teacher ratio.
First, the ratio between cost and the perceived value has become better since 2004, i.e., the guests are more satisfied now and believe that your service is worth the money.
showing clear thought and reason
He was too upset to be rational.
a rational argument/debate/explanation
Be as rational as you can and you will pass your driving test the first time.
not cooked
raw fish/meat/vegetables
My grandparents often tell me that they've never eaten anything while walking and they love healthy food, especially raw fish and sushi.
in the natural state
raw sugar
raw materials
Finally, I think the designers will make use of the raw materials and create an innovative look for all of us.
a narrow beam of light, heat, etc. travelling in a straight line from its place of origin
A ray of sunshine shone through a gap in the clouds.
Light rays bend as they pass from air to water.
She just couldn't see any way of finding her camping equipment in the basement, where there was not even a single ray of light to guide her.
a small amount of a feeling that makes you feel happier or more hopeful
There's still a ray of hope that the missing child will be found alive.
For some readers my story may feel boring and meaningless but for others it might be a ray of hope that best friends can be found where we least expect them.
a piece of equipment with a sharp blade used for removing hair from the face, legs, etc.
Did you pack a razor?
Oh yes, she could vividly remember the last time he hurt her, only then it was with a razor.
to arrive at a place, especially after spending a long time travelling
We won't reach home till five or six o'clock.
They finally reached the coast after five weeks sailing.
In the evening, it got colder than it had been, so we reached home shivering.
to make a decision/agreement/conclusion, etc. about something
She reached the conclusion that there was no more she could do.
We'll inform you when a decision has been reached.
After having thought about this video, I reached the following conclusions: we must film the lessons which are the most important and the activities which take a great part of the day at school.
to get to a particular level, situation, etc.
The temperature is expected to reach 30°C today.
He's just reached the grand age of 95.
They easily reached their target/goal of raising £100,000.
I've reached the point where I can't take any more.
My dad has already reached the age of 60.
to stretch out your arm in order to get or touch something
He reached for the phone and knocked over a glass.
The child reached down/out/over and picked up the kitten.
He reached out and grabbed her arm.
Can you reach me (down) that book?
So when I reached out my hand, I suddenly felt another hand.
to be able to touch or take something with your hand
Could you get that book down for me - I can't reach.
She's grown so tall that she can reach the door handle now.
Then I looked around my car and saw my handbag. I could hardly reach it but after some effort I got it.
to speak to someone on the telephone
You can reach him at home.
I have been trying to reach him the whole day but I didn't get any answer.
the distance that can be travelled, especially easily
We live (easy) reach of the station.
Our city, Sardab, is located just two kilometers from the Caspian Sea, and it is within easy reach of the capital of our province.
Someone's reach is the distance within which they can stretch out their arm and touch something.
I like to keep a notebook and pencil within reach.
The top shelf is out of reach.
Make sure that you keep all medicines out of the reach of children.
not possible for someone to have
With all this money we can buy things previously beyond our reach.
She was always yearning for things beyond her reach.
possible for someone to achieve
Winning the championship suddenly seemed within their reach.
We have decided to take action to prevent further damage being inflicted, and are convinced the task is fully within our reach.
to say, do, or feel something because of something else that has been said or done
He reacted angrily to her comments.
She called him all sorts of names, but he didn't react.
I reacted quickly and without panic.
to become ill because something that you have eaten or used on your body has had a bad effect on you
My skin reacts to most perfumes.
Many people react to penicillin.
One of her weaknesses is that she reacts badly to bird feathers, so it would be nice to find a family without birds.
something you say, feel, or do because of something that has happened
What was his reaction to the news?
Reactions to the proposal have been mixed.
I love to watch people's reactions when I say who I am.
There has been a widespread reaction against the government's proposed tax increases.
Her reaction made it all worthwhile. She burst into tears and thanked us. That was an experience that I'll never forget.
an unpleasant effect resulting from eating particular things or taking particular drugs
A number of people have had a bad reaction to this drug.
Some people have an allergic reaction to seafood.
There is one more thing that you have to note: two girls have an allergic reaction to nuts, so please make sure that our lunch is nut-free!
to look at words and understand what they mean
I've read three books this month.
I read about the family's success in the local paper.
I can't read his handwriting.
I've read in the newspapers that there is a threat of war.
Some children can read by the age of four.
We read books and we use computers.
to look at words that are written and say them aloud for other people to listen to
Do you want me to read it to you?
I read him a story at bedtime.
Children love to have stories read aloud to them.
Can you imagine anything more beautiful than a mother reading a bedtime story to her little baby?
to look at signs and be able to understand them
Can you read music?
He learnt how to read music and how to read at the same time, when he was four.
If you read between the lines, you understand what someone really means, or what is really happening in a situation.
Reading between the lines, it was obvious that something was wrong.
Having powerful insight, being able to read between the lines of even an unwritten story and exhibiting an interdisciplinary background are, again, qualities that perfectly describe the friends that there have been in my life.
something that is enjoyable, easy, etc. to read
His history of Stalingrad isn't exactly an easy read.
In spite of these few criticisms, I found your article to be an interesting read, which reflects most accurately on the way most young people see the world.
the act of reading something
It's not brilliant but it's worth a read.
This can be achieved by providing areas with sofas, bean-bags or comfortable armchairs which invite you to sit down and have a good read.
someone who reads
He's a great reader.
Many readers of our magazine have contacted us about the last issue on climate change.
He's a very slow/fast reader.
It is a club of readers. Our motto is "READ AND YOU WILL FEEL FINE!"
a book containing a simple story for people who are learning to read or learning a language
There are readers at five different levels, from beginner to upper intermediate.
the number and type of people who read a particular newspaper, magazine, etc
These magazines have a very young readership.
The first one is an issue that has become one of the main subjects of the last ten years and affects the whole world, so it will interest your readership.
quickly and easily
Information is readily available on the Internet.
willingly and without stopping to think
He readily admits to having problems himself.
He readily agreed to help.
Drinking alcohol won't do you any good. There are a lot of friends who would readily help you if you decided to give it up.
when someone is willing to do something
They expressed a readiness to accept our demands.
Usually, the clients appreciate his readiness to use their language and this has often been a significant factor in closing a deal.
when someone is prepared for something
It was time to repair their shelters in readiness for the winter.
the activity or skill of getting information from books, newspapers, etc.
I did a lot of reading on holiday.
Both children find writing difficult but their reading is fine.
The diaries make good bedtime reading.
Also we do some practice tasks on writing, reading, speaking and spelling.
an event at which someone reads something to an audience
a poetry reading
There is also a need for human interaction such as reading clubs, poetry readings or children's activities.
to move something slightly or make a small change to something
He readjusted his tie.
Because the air conditioning was not working properly or because your unfriendly coach driver refused to readjust it, I got acold from that day.
to change in order to deal with a new situation, such as a new job or home
The children will have to readjust to a new school.
For the last couple of days she had gradually readjusted to her normal mode of life, no longer suddenly finding herself attuned to Morgan's odd modality of perceptions and unable to interface properly with her surroundings.
prepared for doing something
Give me a call when you're ready.
Are you ready to go yet?
We're going at eight, so you've got an hour to get ready.
When will the book be ready for publication?
Are you ready for some painting?
prepared and available to be eaten, drunk, used, etc.
Is dinner ready?
They're building new offices, but they won't be ready till next year.
I'll get lunch ready for midday.
Could you have dinner ready for when we get back?
The meal will be ready at 6 o'clock.
existing in fact and not imagined
He's not real you know, he's just a character in a book.
Romance is never like that in real life.
I have recently seen a program called "Real life". The program is very good because you can see what the real world is like.
not artificial or false
real leather
Is that a toy gun or the real thing?
They brought a car for me but not a real one.
true and not pretended
What was the real reason she didn't come?
Is that your real name?
That is the real reason why I'm going to stay in England longer.
being the most important or the main thing
The real problem, of course, is money.
The real difficulty was the language, because my children don't speak English.
Nowadays people work most of the time with their computers, and the internet gives them the opportunity to download whatever they want, even books, but the real problem is that they do not have the time to read them.
used to emphasize a noun
She was a real help.
It's a real pain he's not available tomorrow.
In the advertisement it says "your perfect evening out", but it was a real disappointment.
taken seriously, not pretended
I thought it was just a practice, but apparently it was for real.
You know I am a Casanova, but this time I know it is for real.
showing things and people as they really are, or making them seem to be real
The creatures were all computer-generated but so realistic.
I chose this film because I think it is very realistic.
accepting the true facts of a situation and not basing decisions on things that will not happen
Let's be realistic - we're not going to finish this by Friday.
We have to be realistic about how much we can afford to pay.
It isn't realistic to expect people to work for so little money.
We must be realistic, my friend. Eighty kilometres is a pretty long distance.
in a way that shows things and people as they really are, or that makes them seem real
The characters are portrayed very realistically.
It was realistically captured in the TV reports you have seen.
in a way that shows that you accept the true facts of a situation
Realistically, we cannot expect to have finished by the weekend.
Realistically, separate schools will probably be with us for a long time to come, but it will remain the least used form of the two.
the way things or situations really are and not the way you would like them to be
Listening to music is my escape from reality.
Sooner or later you have to face up to reality.
He may seem charming but in reality he's actually an unpleasant person.
Finally, your report talks about an audience of less than 2,000 although we were in reality more than 5,000.
the truth about an unpleasant situation
the harsh realities of life
Besides we all know the realities of the modern world.
to start to happen or exist
New jobs could become a reality by next month.
You have made my dream become a reality.
when you notice or understand something that you did not notice or understand before
There is a growing realization that education has benefits at many levels.
I suppose it is only when one starts to think about it that the realization comes about the fact that fashion is part of our everyday life.
when you achieve something that you wanted
the realization of an ambition
I am certain that the realization of such a project would not only be of benefit to me, but also contribute to an enhanced cultural understanding of both the host country and Switzerland.
to notice or understand something that you did not notice or understand before
I didn't realize how unhappy she was.
I suddenly realized I'd met her before.
They didn't realise the danger they were in.
Do you realise that this is the third time you've forgotten?
I suddenly realised he was my cousin, Alex.
to achieve something that you have wanted for a long time
He had realized all his ambitions by the age of 30.
It's rather difficult for people to be able to realize their ambition.
very or very much
She's really friendly/nice.
I really like/love them.
That's really interesting.
It's a really difficult decision.
I really like my lessons, the teacher and my new friends.
used to give particular importance to a verb, especially a modal verb
I really must call Ursula this week.
You really shouldn't worry.
I really need to study.
used when you are saying what is the truth of a situation
He isn't really angry - he's just pretending.
You don't really expect them to refuse, do you?
She said she was twenty eight, but really she's over thirty.
The first lesson was about the present tense and wasn't really difficult for us.
used for replying that something is not true in a way that is less strong than just 'no'
"So was the food good?" - "Not really."
"Did you like him?" - "Not really."
used to express interest or surprise
"Apparently she's leaving." - "Really? When?"
"She's agreed to do a parachute jump for charity." - "Really? Do you think she'll do it?"
an area of knowledge, interest, experience or activity
successes in the realm of foreign policy
Unfortunately, this area is not within my realm of experience.
Reading literature, in particular, as a pastime is the path which leads you to the magic realm of other worlds shaped by a magnificent combination of words, phrases and sentences composing anew and in a totally different way what you experience in your everyday life.
to get something good by working hard for it
Sometimes, this approach can reap tremendous rewards.
Again this is going to cost the library but it will be able to reap the benefits in the end.
at the back of something
There's a sticker on the rear door/window.
In his rear mirror he saw that all the lights on the airfield were on again.
the back part of something
First class accommodation is towards the rear of the train.
We walked round to the rear of the house.
The damage seems to be at the rear of the fridge where the motor is situated.
If you rear children or young animals, you care for them until they are adults.
In these waters they breed and rear their young.
But still the main role of the woman is to rear her children and be a good assistant to her husband and take care of her home.
to change the order or position of things
I've rearranged the furniture in my office.
Maybe you could rearrange the café to be more classical.
the facts about why something happens or why someone does something
I knew Sam was going - that was the reason I went there.
That was the reason for telling her.
Is there any particular reason why he doesn't want to come?
The reason that I'm calling is to ask you a favour.
He left without giving a reason.
For some reason, he's decided to leave his job.
I think the reason why I like mirrors is I like to look at myself.
something that makes it right for you to think or do something
I think we have reason to be concerned.
There is every reason to believe the project will be finished on time.
She suddenly hit him for no reason.
Animals in zoos are in captivity and not in their natural habitat. They live captured there for no reason, as we could learn about them from books or documentaries instead.
If something is within reason, it is acceptable and possible.
We can wear what we like to the office, within reason.
Although this view may seem too harsh and hard-hearted, I believe it is within reason.
If it stands to reason that something happens or is true, it is what you would expect.
It stands to reason that a child who is constantly criticized will have little self-confidence.
So it stands to reason that there is no place for Piggy in Jack's world.
quite cheap
reasonable prices
Tomatoes are very reasonable at this time of year.
If you are nature lovers, you should visit some small villages where you can find a peaceful atmosphere, delicious, fresh food and everything at a reasonable price.
big enough or large enough in number or amount, although not big or not many
There were a reasonable number of people there.
It's a reasonable salary for that job.
We have a reasonable chance of winning the game.
Some of them have good places for sightseeing and a reasonable amount of nightlife.
good enough but not the best
The service at the hotel is reasonable but don't expect 5-star treatment.
I'd say her work is of a reasonable standard.
From my Certificates you can see that I speak English very well and that I have a reasonable knowledge of Italian and Spanish.
fair and showing good judgment
It's not reasonable to expect people to work such long hours.
If you tell him what happened, I'm sure he'll understand - he's a reasonable man.
In my opinion, reasonable rules are important for us but being too strict will bring stress, which causes kids to be afraid of many things.
based on facts that can be explained
There will be a reasonable explanation for all of this.
I hope you will be able to offer me a reasonable explanation for these mistakes and report correct information in your newspaper.
available at a good price
reasonably priced meals
Then in the evenings there are many reasonably priced restaurants, where you can get a nice tasty meal with friends.
good/successful/well, etc. enough but not very good or very well
I did reasonably well at school but not as well as my sister.
I noticed the sound system wasn't perfect, but it was reasonably good.
in a fair way, showing good judgment
Stop shouting and let's discuss this reasonably.
the process of thinking about something in order to make a decision
I don't understand the reasoning behind this decision.
According to this line of reasoning, its supporters believe that although sports people sacrifice a lot of their time, the huge amounts of money that they earn are illogical in comparison with the job they are doing.
something that you say to make someone stop worrying
Despite my reassurances that she was welcome, she wouldn't come.
I very much like being around people and need the reassurance of being well liked.
to say something to stop someone from worrying
He reassured me that I would be paid soon.
Making my own decisions gives me much stress because I am always so scared of the results and I need to be reassured that I am doing the right thing all the time.
making you feel less worried
a reassuring smile/voice
It was a reassuring feeling.
someone who fights against the government in their country, especially a soldier
The rebels took over the capital and set up a new government.
Rebels seized control of the airport.
Suddenly, the police came onto the train, and killed all the rebels.
to refuse to obey rules that you disagree with or do not like
Children often rebel against eating certain foods - Rory won't eat vegetables.
His brother was never kind with her and she always wanted to rebel.
when people fight against the government in their country
Government troops defeated an armed rebellion in the south.
The rebellion of the students not only led to the freedom of Greece but it also inspired the local people and the people worldwide to fight for their freedom.
refusing to obey rules because you do not like authority
a rebellious teenager
"It was impossible for me to become submissive - I must have been rebellious from my very birth", she recalls.
to build something again that has been damaged or destroyed
The cathedral was completely rebuilt in 1425 after it had been destroyed by fire.
It's a XIX century construction, but they rebuilt it.
to make a situation succeed again after something bad caused it to fail
The country was still struggling to rebuild its economy after the war.
They had to rebuild their lives after the accident.
Since more and more people in our modern society have been living in a highly urbanized environment and they are isolated from the rest of nature, I think it is vital to make every effort to rebuild healthy relationships with nature.
to remember something
I don't recall arranging a time to meet.
Can you recall what happened that night?
I recall that he promised to send the document.
Right now, I can't recall much of that phone call.
a piece of paper that proves that you have received goods or money
Could I have a receipt?
Make sure you get a receipt for everything you buy.
Fortunately I had kept the receipts and could show them to him.
the act of receiving something
Items must be returned within fourteen days of receipt.
to get something that someone has given or sent to you
Occasionally, he still receives letters from fans.
She received a number of awards during her lifetime.
I also received many other presents.
to react to a suggestion or piece of work in a particular way
His first book was not well received.
The English lessons in the mornings were well received but I wonder if it is possible to get more variety?
happening or starting from a short time ago
Is that a recent photo?
Have you been following recent political events?
In recent years, sales have decreased quite markedly.
Dear John, Thank you for your recent letter.
not long ago, or at a time that started not long ago
Have you seen any good films recently?
Until very recently he worked as a teacher.
Recently, I've been feeling a bit depressed.
Recently I have been watching a lot of programmes on television.
the place in a hotel or office building where people go when they arrive
Ask for me at reception.
a reception area/desk
When I arrived at the hotel I asked the reception to find me a taxi to see the city.
a formal party that is given to celebrate a special event or to welcome someone
a wedding reception
Next month, I have to fly to London to attend a friend's wedding reception.
the way people react to something or someone
We were given a very warm reception.
Although we were given a very nice reception, problems began to appear already at the start.
someone who works in a hotel or office building, answering the telephone and dealing with guests
a hotel receptionist
If you can't find the information, you must ask the receptionist.
willing to think about and accept new ideas
She's generally very receptive to ideas and suggestions.
As we are very receptive to new ideas, this interaction will help us improve our city and take a step forward in making it a nicer place to live or visit.
a period when the economy of a country is not successful and conditions for business are bad
The latest report confirms that the economy is in recession.
The country is now in the deepest recession for over 40 years.
Now in Japan the recession is getting worse and unemployment is increasing.
to fill a battery with electricity so that it can work again
You can recharge these batteries.
After buying your mobile phone, it is important to know that it can't be used for an unlimited time. It will have to be recharged and, in the end, it will let you down when most needed.
to have a period of rest and relaxation so that you feel energetic again
She took a trip to the south of France to recharge her batteries.
It is a very effective way in which we could rejuvenate ourselves and recharge our batteries in order to face the difficulties of the daily routine.
a list of foods and a set of instructions telling you how to cook something
Do you know a good recipe for wholemeal bread?
For real South Asian food, just follow these recipes.
Actually I am going to bring with me some delicious recipes that you are going to be surprised by.
to be very likely to become a disaster, a success, etc.
Living with your in-laws is a recipe for disaster.
Lack of love, raising children in a hostile environment, being oblivious to their emotional and psychological needs... all are a recipe for disaster, which is the exact case in the book as far as the tragic end is concerned.
doing something dangerous and not caring about what might happen
reckless driving
And, not to mention all the litter they leave behind, they also damage valuable rock formations or cliff faces through reckless climbing attempts.
to think that something is probably true
I reckon he's going to leave.
How much do you reckon it's going to cost?
He reckons that he earns more in a week than I do in a month.
What do you reckon about the idea?
when you accept that something is true or real
There is a growing recognition of the scale of the problem.
We easily become seduced by the false image of a perfect world of ads that makes us a part of it as long as we purchase more things with no sense of recognition between a real and a false need.
when someone gets praise, respect or thanks for something good they have done
Ellen gained recognition for her outstanding work.
What they are after, is recognition in their work but not so much for the work itself, but for what comes after recognition, which is a rise in the salary!
when you know something or someone because you have seen or experienced them before
I waved at her, but she showed no sign of recognition.
Everything had changed out of all recognition and bore no resemblance to the house he had entered a few minutes ago.
to know someone or something because you have seen, heard or experienced them before
I hadn't seen her for 20 years, but I recognized her immediately.
I recognized her from her picture.
I recognized his voice.
Doctors are trained to recognise the symptoms of different diseases.
I still didn't recognise him and he said that he wanted to tell me something.
to accept that something is legal, true or important
She recognized that she had been partly to blame.
The international community has refused to recognize the newly independent nation state.
Smoking is recognised as a leading cause of lung cancer.
Martins hero-worshipped Lime until the moment when he was forced to recognize that his best friend was the worst racketeer imaginable.
to officially show respect for someone for an achievement
He was recognized by the governor for his work with teenagers.
To sum up, Peter Smith deserves to be recognised for his efforts.
to remember something
I didn't recollect having seen him.
I am able to recollect only one single family gathering I did not especially take to.
when you remember something
He had no recollection of the incident.
I have a very vague recollection of my childhood but, of course, there are some things that have stayed in my memory.
to say that someone or something is good or suitable for a particular purpose
Can you recommend a good wine to go with this dish?
Peter had recommended a restaurant to us.
I recommend the city of Porto Alegre.
to advise someone that something should be done
The report recommended that tourists avoid the region.
I recommend writing your feelings down on paper.
She has been recommended for promotion.
I recommend that you apply to work at the festival and you will have a great time!
a piece of advice about what to do in a particular situation
The report makes the recommendation that more prisons should be built.
It's my recommendation that this factory be closed immediately.
I hope my recommendations are helpful, and I hope you have a great time!
a suggestion that someone or something is good or suitable for a particular purpose
I bought this book on Andy's recommendation.
The Chef's recommendation is Bulgogi made by beef.
to make two different ideas, beliefs, or situations agree or able to exist together
It is sometimes difficult to reconcile science and religion.
How can you reconcile your love of animals with your habit of eating them?
When this is the case, the families caring for them are faced with an uphill struggle, as it is difficult to reconcile the need for earning a living with the care of their relatives.
to think again about a decision or opinion and decide if you want to change it
We've been asked to reconsider the proposal.
We invite your newspaper to reconsider its position, hoping that the council will think about our proposals.
to build something again after it has been damaged or destroyed
They reconstructed the palace exactly as it had been.
Dear Sir, The student committee greatly appreciate your efforts to resolve our current problems, in particular improving and reconstructing our sports centre.
to create a description of a past event using all the information that you have
The police tried to reconstruct the crime using evidence found at the scene.
Through some letters written by Olivia to her sister Marcia, who lived in Paris in 1923, Anne reconstructs the different episodes, letting the reader imagine all the different scenes.
when you build something again after it has been damaged or destroyed
The reconstruction of the city took decades.
The classrooms are in need of immediate reconstruction.
when you create a description of a past event using all the information that you have
A reconstruction of the crime was shown on TV.
to store sounds or pictures using electronic equipment, a camera, etc. so that you can listen to them or see them again
They've just recorded a new album.
I recorded that programme for you.
a recorded message
The best thing about the phone is it has a camera and it can record anything.
to write down information or store it on a computer so that it can be used in the future
He recorded details of their conversation in his diary.
Another way to highlight the importance of books is to consider them as the "depots" of wisdom and knowledge that exist and have been recorded since the beginning of History.
If a device records a measurement, it shows that measurement.
The thermometer recorded a temperature of 30 degrees Celsius.
a song or music which has been recorded and which is available for the public to buy, or the plastic disk that the music is recorded on
I like their new record.
My room is comfortable but a bit untidy around my stereo because in spite of having a lot of records and CDs, I don't have any shelf for them so this is why I'm going to buy a new shelf.
the best, biggest, longest, tallest, etc.
He ran the 100 metres in 9.79 seconds and broke the world record.
He holds the world record for 100 metres.
She set a new European record in the high jump.
In track and field he has broken the current world record of the 100 metre distance!
information that is written on paper or stored on computer so that it can be used in the future
medical/dental records
My teacher keeps a record of my absences.
This summer has been the hottest on record.
First of all, using a computer is most important for me because I can store my personal records such as my diary or expenses and I can send e-mails to my friends who live abroad.
to tell people the true facts about a situation
I know they thought Alex was lying, and I wanted to put the record straight.
I hope that my letter will set the record straight and that the public shall be informed about the true events of that day.
If you say something off the record, you do not want the public to know about it.
Off the record, ministers are saying the president must resign.
Off the record, how come that your reporter can print such lies when knowing they are perhaps hurting certain people in this important matter?
A person's or company's record is their behaviour or achievements.
She has an outstanding academic record.
Of all airlines they have the best safety record.
a good/bad record
Although my academic record is excellent, I feel that I lack practical experience and the opportunity to put my acquired knowledge to the test.
a piece of music or a speech which has been recorded onto a disc, tape, etc.
I bought a recording of Maria Callas singing Verdi.
I've made some recordings for you to listen to.
the process or business of putting sounds, especially music, onto a disc, magnetic tape, etc., using electronic equipment
a recording studio
I loved to sing and I decided to visit all the recording companies.
to become healthy or happy again after an illness, injury, or period of sadness
It takes a long time to recover from surgery.
She never recovered from the death of her husband.
Dear Teacher, I'm sorry but I can't be at your next class because I'm recovering from an illness and my doctor said that I should stay home.
If a system or situation recovers, it returns to the way it was before something bad happened.
The economy was quick to recover after the election.
Lots of effort has been put in and finally our economy is recovering.
to get something back that has been lost or stolen
Police recovered the stolen money.
Moreover it might become virtually impossible to recover the money from that investment.
when you feel better or happier again after an illness, injury, or period of sadness
She only had the operation last month but she's made a full recovery.
I was sorry to hear that you were ill, and my family and I send you our best wishes for a speedy recovery.
when a system or situation returns to the way it was before something bad happened
economic recovery
The housing industry has made a remarkable recovery.
We are still waiting for the recovery in our economy but the political transformation and economic reforms are very painful for our society.
when you get back something that was lost or stolen
the recovery of stolen jewels
The diary had been lost for a long time but was now found in the attic of the house several years after the woman's death. It was dedicated to John. When John finished reading Lucy's secret diary he let willing tears flow. ... The recovery of the lost diary had broken his heart.
to make something exist or happen again
They plan to recreate a typical English village in Japan.
We want people whose skills with a laser high-accuracy enamel paint brush could only be surpassed by the skill of those men in our past who wielded the original weapons we are now recreating.
activities that you do for enjoyment when you are not working
Emma's only form of recreation seems to be shopping.
a recreation area/centre
Is there any gym or other recreation facilities available in the Magnet Hotel?
used for recreation
recreational activities/facilities
There are few schools in the countryside and only basic recreational facilities, whereas the cities possess many schools, fully staffed, universities and many opportunities for recreation of every kind.
to try to persuade someone to work for a company or to join an organization
Secondly, the coach driver was quite a rude person and, as far as I am concerned, it would be a good idea to pay more attention when recruiting your staff.
someone who has recently joined an organization
a new recruit
The CD-Rom will enable a self-training for new recruits with help of Compact Disks with usefull info.
the process of finding people to work for a company or become a new member of an organization
The recession has forced a lot of companies to cut down on staff recruitment.
This is mainly due to the recent recruitment of office personnel in our department.
a shape with four 90° angles and four sides, with opposite sides of equal length and two sides longer than the other two
The garden is in the shape of a rectangle.
shaped like a rectangle
a rectangular patch of grass
Between Rossio and the river there is a commercial district laid out in a rectangular pattern, where you can go shopping.
to correct something or change it so that it is acceptable
The government has promised to rectify the situation.
I also hope as far as the article is concerned that you will kindly rectify the defamatory information revealed in the statement.
to happen again or many times
The same ideas recur throughout her books.
This feeling of feeling trapped recurs often throughout the novel as a way to emphasize the feeling of isolation.
to collect used paper, glass, plastic, etc., and put if through a process so that it can be used again
We recycle all our newspapers and bottles.
The Japanese recycle more than half their waste paper.
I realised that it is very important to recycle.
Recycled paper, glass, plastic, etc. has been used before and put through a process so that it can be used again.
recycled paper/plastic
Using recycled glass and paper not only saves resources, but also a lot of energy.
when paper, glass, plastic, etc. is put through a process so that it can be used again
ways to encourage recycling
a recycling centre
In order to write this report, I interviewed 50 people in my town near the recycling centre and 50 people on the street.
being the same colour as blood
red lipstick
The dress was bright/dark red.
Opposite the second bus stop is my house with a red door.
Red wine is made from black grapes.
We ordered a bottle of red wine.
You can bring red wine, if you want, because we will be eating beef.
describes hair which is an orange-brown colour
Both children have red hair.
Cassie, that beautiful girl with red hair, will come to it.
If someone goes red, their face becomes red because they are embarrassed or angry.
He kissed her on the cheek and she went bright red.
When Paul saw the girl who had blond hair and bluish eyes, his face suddenly went red.
official rules that do not seem necessary and make things happen very slowly
We need to cut through all this red tape.
It is the student's responsibility to deal with the red tape and, as you might imagine, it is not an easy task.
the colour of blood
She uses a lot of reds and pinks in her paintings.
She was dressed all in red.
Hey, Robbie... about that painting we're going to do in my bedroom: I've decided to use red!
to become very angry
When he insulted my friends, I just saw red.
I see red each time I realize that my son is looking forward to arriving home so as to flop down in front of his telly instead of reading a good book.
If your bank account is in the red, you have spent more money than there was in it.
I expect I'm in the red again.
Her bank account was in the red.
to make a place more modern by improving old buildings or building new ones
There are plans to redevelop the city's waterfront area.
Most of the coastal villages lose their traditional element - their value - and they become redeveloped in order to be in accord with the growing need to attract people.
when a place is made more modern by improving old buildings or building new ones
There has been a lot of redevelopment in this area.
I would like to invite other people to support this proposal and to try to explain to the opposition how nice our city centre would be after the proposed redevelopment.
to share money, land, power, etc. between people in a different way from before
to redistribute wealth
The challenge our governments face now is how to redistribute wealth and how to provide the opportunity for all to exercise their right to work.
to make something less
to reduce air pollution
Prices have been reduced by almost 50 percent.
The number of employees was reduced from 500 to 300.
Do nuclear weapons really reduce the risk of war?
It is a bit small, but the price was reduced.
when something is reduced
a reduction in traffic
huge price reductions
As for the prices, they are reasonable and you can have a reduction if your group is over 16 people.
when your employer makes you stop working because there is not enough work
There have been a lot of redundancies in the mining industry.
Some people seems to be afraid of that prospect and reluctant to use the Net, because they think it means the end of any relationship between people and it can lead to redundancies.
having lost your job because your employer no longer needs you
Half the workforce has been made redundant because of the decline in sales.
She had been made redundant and now, she has no job, no money, no friends and no home.
not needed or used any more because there are other similar or more modern things
redundant weapons
Mass production, chasing profit wherever it is possible, makes oldish traditions redundant.
to talk or write about someone or something, especially briefly
She didn't once refer to her son.
He always referred to his father as 'the old man'.
In your book you refer to the 'Hotel Astrid' but they decided to close it last year.
If writing or information refers to someone or something, it relates to that person or thing.
The sales figures refer to UK sales only.
Ancient Greece was divided into two groups. The contrast between those two groups was getting bigger and bigger and it ended up as a destructive war - destructive doesn't refer only to deaths and city damage but also to the corruption of morals.
to read something in order to get information
Please refer to your owner's manual for more information.
to send someone or something to a different place or person for information or help
My doctor referred me to a specialist.
All customer complaints are referred to the main office.
We would beg you to take immediate action about this, otherwise we will have to refer this to the "Noise Abatement Society".
a person who is in charge of a sports game and who makes certain that the rules are followed
I think the referee made the wrong decision.
Due to my back injury, I could not train and play with my team, so it would be a good idea to be a referee.
relating to something
I am writing with reference to your letter of 15 March.
I'm writing with reference to the advertisement I saw on the college noticeboard concerning some jobs during the period 18-23 March, when there is the International Sports Competition.
a name or book title, etc. in a book or other piece of writing that tells you where information came from
There's the usual list of references at the back of the book.
I have information, and historical references in my collection, and I will be glad to share it with other members.
a letter that is written by someone who knows you, to say if you are suitable for a job or course
My old headteacher said he would write/give me a reference.
I am enclosing references from my ex-managers.
when you briefly talk or write about someone or something
In his book, he makes several references to his time in France.
She made no reference to her marital problems.
Finally, your article makes reference to "a sudden downpour of rain" which was actually a small shower which lasted no more than five minutes.
when you read something in order to get information
Please keep this handout for future reference.
Can you also provide us with the list of all 300 hotels for our reference.
an occasion when all the people in a country can vote in order to show their opinion about a political question
The government has promised a referendum on voting reform.
Everybody was speaking about the referendum.
to improve an idea, method, system, etc. by making small changes
The engineers spent months refining the software.
Zucchero Fornaciari was discovered ten years ago in a national show and during this period of time has sharpened and refined his music.
very polite and showing knowledge of social rules
She's very refined.
Not only is Lord Trimingham a noble and refined representative of Edwardian aristocracy, but also he is kind towards Leo.
improved by many small changes
a refined method
highly refined theories
Ever more refined technological devices like robots for example have led to the bizarre situation that you can walk through a production hall while work is in progress without seeing any human workers at all.
If a surface such as a mirror or water reflects something, you can see the image of that thing in the mirror, water, etc.
He saw himself reflected in the shop window.
We could see a little from the light coming from the moon that was reflected in a mirror.
to show or be a sign of something
The statistics reflect a change in people's spending habits.
The town's economic success is reflected in its shiny new buildings.
Your description of the people, their everyday life, their characters and their friendliness reflects that you really had an excellent time here.
to think in a serious and careful way
In prison, he had plenty of time to reflect on the crimes he had committed.
I need some time to reflect.
As I mentioned, there were several points which you can reflect on.
the image of something in a mirror, on a shiny surface, etc.
I saw my reflection in the window.
Have you seen your reflection in a mirror?
something that is a sign or result of a particular situation
The fact that soldiers are on the streets is a reflection of how terrified the government is.
Is it really a reflection of the way we live?
when you think in a serious and careful way
He paused for reflection before answering my question.
On reflection, I think I was wrong.
Only now, on reflection, do I realize what care, love and thoughtfulness my parents lavished on me.
when changes are made to improve a system, organization, or law, or a change that is made
economic/political reform
Students have called for reforms in the admission process.
To sum up, it is obvious that a reform in the educational system is necessary and that the beliefs of what is or is not useful to learn must be reconsidered.
to change a system, organization, or law in order to improve it
efforts to reform the education system
Dag Hammarskjold made the work of the U N more efficient by reforming its structure.
to stop yourself from doing something
Please refrain from talking during the performance.
I believe that people who have civil and graceful manners and who refrain from being too assertive end up being more successful and powerful than those who try to exert authority at any given moment.
to make you feel less hot or tired
A cool drink should refresh you.
The bar is open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. When you are in my house, refresh yourself, help yourself from the fridge, feel at your ease, and then call me by phone.
to make something more up-to-date or to make it look newer or more attractive
Old furniture can be refreshed with a coat of paint.
Wait a minute - I need to refresh my memory on this.
The magazine is totally up-to-date with extreme question papers in which the reader has the opportunity to test or refresh his/her knowledge.
different and interesting
a refreshing change
It's refreshing to see a film that's so original.
Once you master the language quite well, listening to a news broadcast is a refreshing challenge that may require some serious concentration on your behalf.
making you feel less hot or tired
a refreshing shower/swim
Last summer, I got a chance to visit there, and my breath was taken away by its soft sand, refreshing breeze, flocks of seagulls and poetic sunsets.
food and drinks that are available at a meeting, event, on a journey, etc.
Refreshments are available in the lobby.
During the show, we had some refreshments and popcorn.
protection from danger or unpleasant conditions
We took refuge from the storm in an old barn.
From the very moment when people from GDR started to take refuge in the BRD's embassy in Prague, my friend and I grew more and more excited.
someone who has been forced to leave their country, especially because of a war
a refugee camp
Thousands of refugees fled across the border.
This year I think I'd rather go to a refugee camp to organise a program for children.
an amount of money that is given back to you, especially because you are not happy with something you have bought
The holiday company apologized and gave us a full refund.
I am expecting a full refund and compensation for the discomfort I have suffered.
to give back money that someone has paid to you
They refunded the cost of our tickets.
For all these reasons, I'm sure you realise that I deserve at the very minimum to be refunded all the money I spent on the Trip and unless this is forthcoming I shall take the matter a step further.
when someone refuses to do or accept something
Her refusal to cooperate didn't help her case.
What shocked me was his complete refusal to admit his mistake.
The refusal of students to use the college canteen led to a demonstration that was held at the main entrance.
to say that you will not do or accept something
I asked him to leave but he refused.
Cathy still refuses to admit that she was wrong.
She asked me to lend her some money but I refused.
He's in trouble but he's refused all my offers of help.
We have a competition for the cyclists next Friday and I need to practise. Unfortunately, I've lost my bike and my Mum refuses to buy a new one.
to get something back again
The government has regained control of the capital.
It was several hours before he regained consciousness.
He regained his health in a month, and helped police to capture the loan gang.
to think of someone or something in a particular way
She is generally regarded as one of the greatest singers this century.
The plans were regarded with deep suspicion.
Certainly, riding a bicycle is regarded as a healthy way of travelling and I do agree with it.
used to introduce a subject
As regards payment, you will receive £300 per week plus accommodation.
As regards accommodation, we would like to stay in a hotel or a Bed and Breakfast, not at a campsite.
greetings
Kind/Best regards
Give my regards to your mother.
I hope this information helps you to make your decision. Best regards, in/with regard to sth
relating to something
I am writing with regard to your letter of 24 June.
I am writing to you with regard to the International Arts Festival that was held recently.
respect or admiration for someone
I have the greatest regard for her.
She is held in high regard by other employees.
about
The company is being questioned regarding its employment policy.
I apologise to you for missing tomorrow's class as I have to attend a meeting regarding the field trip for our school with the Principal.
without being affected or influenced by anything else that happens or exists
This job is open to all, regardless of previous experience.
People listen to music regardless of their age group or their social status.
without being stopped or influenced by something
Mr Redwood claimed he would carry on with his campaign regardless.
a system of government or other control, especially one that people do not approve of
the former Communist regime
To my mind this film is highly recommendable to Germans who want to learn more about their history and to everybody who wants to learn about the consequences of a totalitarian political regime.
a particular area in a country or the world
the semi-desert regions of Australia
the South-west region
The Northeast region is famous for its white sandy beaches which are fringed with coconut trees.
approximately
It probably cost somewhere in the region of £900.
I am willing to pay rent in the region of £1000 to £1200 monthly.
relating to a particular area in a country or the world
a regional accent/dialect
Among these events, you'll be able to visit the annual regional food festival, in which you'll enjoy some delicious meals and stupendous cakes.
to put information about someone or something, especially a name, on an official list
Students have to register for the new course by the end of April.
Is he registered with the authorities to sell alcohol?
I registered the car in my name.
I registered for a "green card" six months ago.
to show an opinion or feeling
People gathered to register their opposition to the plans.
Dear Sir, I would like to register my dissatisfaction and displeasure over my recent holiday organized by you.
the style of language, grammar, and words used in particular situations
a formal/informal register
People chatting at a party will usually be talking in an informal register.
when a name or information is recorded on an official list
voter registration
We had to pay some money for the registration in the first lesson.
to feel sorry about a situation, especially something that you wish you had not done
If you don't tell her the truth you'll regret it later.
I really regret leaving school so young.
He began to regret that he hadn't paid more attention in class.
Is there anything you've done in your life that you regret?
I'm glad to receive your letter and know about your intention to come to Brazil. I think you've made a nice choice and you won't regret it.
used to say that you are sorry that you have to tell someone about a situation
We regret to inform you that the application has been refused.
The council regrets that the money is no longer available.
Dear editor, I regret to inform you about some untrue information which was given in the last issue of your magazine.
a feeling of sadness about a situation, often something that you wish you had not done
I left school at 16, but I've had a great life and I have no regrets.
My only regret is that we didn't invite James.
The manager expressed regret at the number of staff reductions.
It is with deep/great regret that I announce Steve Adam's resignation.
Anyway, it was too late for regrets.
happening or doing something often, especially at the same time every week, year, etc.
a regular customer
It's recommended that you take regular exercise.
Violence is a regular occurrence in this part of the city.
His girlfriend is a regular member of that new club which I have joined.
following the usual rules or patterns in grammar
'Talk' is a regular verb but 'go' is not.
being a standard size
a burger and regular fries
That minivan is longer than a regular station wagon.
repeated with the same amount of time or space between one thing and the next
I suggested that we meet on a regular basis.
Plant the seedlings at regular intervals.
I'm willing to take care of your telescopes and to carry out a service on them at regular intervals so that they will work perfectly for many years.
often
Accidents regularly occur on this bend.
I know I promised to write to you regularly but I just hadn't a spare minute until now.
at the same time each day, week, month, etc.
They meet regularly - usually once a week.
I usually go out with my friends to buy a lot of clothes, regularly at weekends.
to control an activity or process, especially by using rules
laws regulating advertising
I think in the near future we will find a way to regulate and control the internet and prevent criminals from using it.
to control the speed, temperature, etc. of something
Babies find it difficult to regulate their body temperature.
I expressed a wish to the driver to regulate the temperature, but he was extremely rude to me as well as to other passengers.
an official rule that controls how something is done
building/safety/traffic regulations
There are various rules and regulations governing the procedure.
I would like the government to impose strict rules and regulations on capturing animals.
when a process or activity is controlled
government regulation of interest rates
Proper regulation of program contents, monitoring children's time watching television and using television as a media to promote other leisure activities are factors which could reduce but at the same time make more efficient the time spent in front of the television.
a time when all the people involved in a play, dance, etc. practise in order to prepare for a performance
We only had one rehearsal before the show.
I helped to organise the rehearsals of the different groups who were going to play in the concert.
to practise a play, dance, etc. in order to prepare for a performance
We usually rehearse on Wednesdays.
I can't count how many nights I spent studying and studying for difficult exams, rehearsing for presentations and so on.
a period of time when a king or queen rules a country
the reign of Henry VIII
If I had the incredible opportunity to travel back in time and place, I would probably choose to go to Egypt during the reign of the Pharaohs to gain an insight into how this magical place really was so long ago.
to be the king or queen of a country
Queen Victoria reigned for 64 years.
I would be most of my free time playing with them, making them feel I am their friend not the king who has to reign over his land and possessions.
to be the main feeling or quality in a situation
Chaos reigned as angry protesters hammered on the doors.
Terror reigned during our singing courses.
to make an existing opinion, feeling or idea stronger
His behaviour merely reinforced my dislike of him.
The first unfavourable impression was reinforced the moment we arrived at the hotel.
to make something stronger
a security door reinforced by/with steel bars
reinforced concrete
If it is not possible, could not we get some money to be able to protect ourselves better against this unbearable noise, by reinforcing our windows.
to refuse to accept or agree with something
The United States government rejected the proposal.
The appeal was rejected by the High Court.
The prime minister rejected the suggestion that it was time for him to resign.
She rejected the proposal for a long, long time, but she finally married the Crown Prince 6 years ago.
to refuse to accept someone for a job, course, etc.
She applied to Cambridge University but was rejected.
He applied for a job as a chef, but he was rejected.
to not give someone the love or attention they were expecting
She felt rejected by her husband.
"So you're Michael, the mis-understood artist, rejected by his family and friends," the man growled.
when you refuse to accept or agree with something
Their rejection of the peace plan is very disappointing for the government.
As a consequence, unemployment can lead to rejection of social and economic order and cause strikes, demonstrations and other forms of social dissatisfaction.
a letter that says you have not been successful in getting a job, a place at college, etc
I've sent off ten applications but I've only had rejections so far.
when someone does not get the love, attention or success they were expecting
a feeling of rejection
One would say she was a true Rapunzel, and oh, how he wanted to climb up to her; but fear of rejection made him completely motionless.
to be connected, or to find or show the connection between two or more things
How do the two proposals relate?
They relate in no way to what an actor contributes to a project.
to tell a story or describe a series of events
He related the story of their journey.
It relates the story of Clément Mathieu, who is a supply teacher.
If people are related, they belong to the same family.
Of course Elise and Linda are related to each other – they’re cousins.
We're related by marriage only.
Although they're related to each other, they have rather different characters.
connected
We discussed unemployment and related issues.
There's been an increase in criminal activity related to drugs.
It is also related to my research project.
someone who belongs to the same family as you
The funeral was attended by friends and relations.
He's called Ken Russell, no relation to the film director.
I began to play against my relations and friends but I soon found that I could beat them without any difficulty.
the way in which two people or groups of people feel and behave towards each other
Relations between the couple are said to be strained.
Britain enjoys friendly relations with Canada.
The second film is 'Alice' directed by the world's most respected man within the movie business - of course Woody Allen. Again the good old fellow is totally fascinated by people in general, human relations and reactions.
a connection between two or more things
The relation between smoking and lung cancer is well established.
Another drawback is the relation between space and time.
when compared with something
Salaries are low in relation to the cost of living.
I think television has several advantages but also disadvantages in relation to books.
about or relating to something
I'd like to ask you something in relation to what you said earlier.
In relation to last month's social program, the sightseeing tour of London was divine, although we didn't get to see the entire city.
the way two people or groups feel about and behave towards each other
He has a very good relationship with his father.
Then we studied some phrasal verbs and I was supposed to read a text about feelings and relationships.
a sexual or romantic friendship
Have you had any serious relationships in the past year?
Are you in a relationship at the moment?
He told me that he hopes that someday we could have a boyfriend-girlfriend relationship for real.
the way in which two things are connected
the relationship between sunburn and skin cancer
The relationship between mind and body has been proved by scientists.
a member of your family
There was a party for friends and relatives.
I haven't got many blood relatives.
All her close/distant relatives came to the wedding.
After that there'll be a big party with all your relatives and friends.
being judged or measured in comparison with something else
the relative prosperity of the West
We weighed up the relative advantages of driving there or going by train.
In order to get myself clear let me tell you that as an individual, I consider myself a dreamer and in the transition from my late teens to my relative maturity I've considered the words of Hesse in his novel "Gertrude": "The difference between our youth and maturity is that in the first stage we are selfish in all our feelings and actions, while in maturity our top priority is everyone else but ourselves..."
when compared to something else
The economy has been declining relative to other countries.
This seems true at first sight but when one takes into account the different sizes of population, it becomes clear that every country is more or less equally successful relative to its population.
quite good/bad/cheap, etc. when compared to other similar things
Eating out is relatively cheap.
Students will find the course relatively easy.
First of all, the most favourable time for me to travel is July, because I am in the final year of University, so I have to attend classes for a thesis almost throughout the year apart from July, when I can take a relatively long summer holiday.
to become happy and comfortable because nothing is worrying you, or to make someone do this
I find it difficult to relax.
After work I relax with a cup of tea and the newspaper.
The wine had relaxed him and he began to talk.
If you want to relax, Buenos Aires is near a lot of beautiful beaches.
If a part of your body relaxes, it becomes less stiff, and if you relax it, you make it become less stiff.
Try these exercises to relax your neck muscles.
the feeling of being relaxed
He plays the piano for relaxation.
Last week I decided to paint it in baby blue, you know I love that colour, in fact somebody told me it was very good for relaxation.
feeling happy and calm because nothing is worrying you
She looked relaxed and happy walking along with her two boys.
He seemed perfectly relaxed and in control of the situation.
It makes me more relaxed.
A relaxed situation or place is comfortable and informal.
There was a very relaxed atmosphere at the party.
I love this place because it has a relaxed atmosphere and all the staff are very friendly.
making you feel relaxed
a relaxing bath
Yoga is a very relaxing activity but not boring at all!
to allow a prisoner to be free
Six hostages were released shortly before midday.
He was released from prison last week.
It all began when I was released from jail, after a two year conviction for jewel theft.
to make a record or film available for people to buy or see
The band's latest album will be released next week.
He has recently released a new CD on which he spent a lot of time and really made an effort.
to let the public have news or information about something
Police have not released the dead woman's name.
The minister has released a statement explaining the reasons for his resignation.
The article made some valid points, such as the contradictory studies being released on a regular basis being the foundation of much confusion and that we should eat what we want, with a little commonsense of course,.
to let a substance flow out from somewhere
Dangerous chemicals were accidentally released into the river.
The gases released encourage the greenhouse effect, and it is possible to see a heavy smog floating over the city on some winter days.
a musical recording which is made available for the public to buy
Her latest release, a song about doomed love, she wrote herself.
This department store provides the latest cds and dvds, so you are always up to date and never miss new releases.
when someone is allowed to leave prison, etc.
Her early release from prison led to a demonstration.
when a substance is allowed to spread into the area or atmosphere around it
the release of toxic waste
In such a way we can minimise the impact of the deadly release of radio-active materials.
never stopping or getting any less extreme
relentless criticism
We have come to the end of a millenium of accelerating and relentless destruction of the environment.
in a way that never stops or never gets less extreme
They pestered her relentlessly to take them to the seaside.
After the killing of the two sensible members of the group, namely Piggy and Simon, Ralph is relentlessly pursued by Jack.
the degree to which something is related or useful to what is happening or being talked about
This point has no relevance to the discussion.
One may agree with what has been said or not, but nobody can deny the relevance of the issue, as our future society depends on our present educational system.
related or useful to what is happening or being talked about
relevant information
Education should be relevant to children's needs.
I had studied psychology but I couldn't find a job relevant to my studies.
how reliable something is
I can't vouch for the reliability of these figures.
Our customers appreciate in particular the reliability of our products and most of them are prepared to pay a premium price for a high-quality product.
able to be trusted or believed
a reliable car
reliable information
Gideon is very reliable - if he says he'll do something, he'll do it.
I got a lot of prizes in school, so I consider myself a hardworking and reliable person.
when someone or something depends on someone or something else
our increasing reliance on computers
The fact that this heavy reliance on technology is often overlooked is a growing source of concern among experts.
to depend on someone or something
I don't want to be reliant on anybody.
To conclude one can say that the person should be able to operate on his own and be reliant on himself.
the good feeling that you have when something unpleasant stops or does not happen
It'll be such a relief when these exams are over.
"James can come tonight." "Well, that's a relief!"
I felt such a sense of relief when we finished the project.
She heard an ambulance siren in the distance and with a sigh of relief, she lost consciousness.
when something stops hurting you
I'd been trying to sleep to find relief from the pain.
money, food, or clothes that are given to people because they need help
an international relief operation
In our opinion it is not necessary to practise low-flying because you should take into account that we all live in peace time and the money would be better spent on health or relief agencies.
to make pain or a bad feeling less severe
Breathing exercises can help to relieve stress.
Now science gets the blame for being able to do so much, but not enough to relieve the psychological pain.
happy that something unpleasant has not happened or has ended
I'm just relieved that she's safe and well.
I heard a noise and was relieved to find that it was only a cat.
She actually felt extremely relieved.
the belief in a god or gods, or a particular system of belief in a god or gods
the Christian/Muslim/Buddhist religion
I think it's quite interesting for me, because I like the history of religion.
relating to religion
religious education
religious paintings
Last but not least, I think people need religious and spiritual support and the family has to be protected and preserved.
having a strong belief in a religion
He's a very religious man.
They are both deeply religious.
The majority of us are Catholics or very religious.
to enjoy something
I don't relish the thought of a twelve-hour flight.
But as we gradually grow up and turn into adults, the dependence lessens and we relish our freedom.
enjoyment
He had baked a cake which the children now ate with relish.
My expert knowledge of the latter subject was completely ignored, which left me with the former, the most dreaded of all subjects. This was discussed with relish and the operations were described in such vivid detail that I had to excuse myself and leave the room, because I started to feel faint.
a sauce that you put on food to give it more taste
I ate the burger with some relish.
There are trays of cut lettuce, leaf lettuce, cut tomato, diced tomato, all kinds of relishes, cheese with bacon spread, barbecue, or whatever you like.
to move to another place
The company relocated to Tokyo.
Well, as you know I was looking for a new job and for that reason I had to relocate to London in November.
not wanting to do something
Many victims of crime are reluctant to go to the police.
However, Spanish husbands are very reluctant to share the housework.
in a reluctant way
She reluctantly agreed to step down as managing director.
Reluctantly I am forced to mention that my interpreter's fee should be at least doubled.
to need someone or something in order to be successful, work correctly, etc.
Families rely more on womens' earnings than before.
The success of this project relies on everyone making an effort.
Another thing is that people rely on modern medicine more and more.
to trust someone or something
I know I can rely on you to help me.
British weather can never be relied on.
People rely on me as I always keep my promises.
to continue to be in the same state
Despite the chaos around him, he remained calm.
He remained silent.
The bank will remain open while building work is carried out.
I tried to remain calm but it was very difficult.
to continue to be a secret/ mystery, etc.
The exact date of the wedding remains a secret.
The true location of the treasure remains a mystery.
The tragic death of Pat Johnson was a fact..... Her secret remained a secret.
to stay in the same place
She will remain at her mother's until I return.
The doctor ordered him to remain in bed for a few days.
Max went with me while the others remained in the room.
to continue to exist, especially after other things or people have gone
Only a few hundred of these animals remain today.
After the flood, nothing remained of the village.
Of course, India must have changed a lot since Jules Verne wrote his book, but I think that its charm remains.
continuing to exist when other things or people have gone or been dealt with
Mix in half the butter and keep the remaining 50g for later.
So I decided to do nothing for the remaining week. I stayed at the beach and spent time swimming, reading and relaxing.
pieces or parts of something which continue to exist when most of it has been used, destroyed or taken away
The remains of lunch were still on the table.
We visited the remains of a 12th-century monastery.
With old castles, historical remains, and wonderful views, it seems to be extremely interesting.
to say something that shows your opinion or states a fact
He remarked that she was looking thin.
She remarked on how attractive he was.
Besides, as Chris remarked, this route may be very difficult.
something that you say, showing your opinion about something or stating a fact
He made a remark about her clothes.
Her remarks on the employment question led to a heated discussion.
The man was surprised at her remark and double-checked it reluctantly.
very unusual or noticeable in a way that you admire
He is a truly remarkable man.
He has a remarkable memory.
It is a remarkable piece of literature, which portrays deep feelings of love and hate, depicts strong and unique characters, and reveals eternal concerns with good and bad, life and death.
in a way that makes you feel surprised
She has remarkably good skin for her age.
As for your flight attendants, who are always friendly and remarkably helpful, it would be excellent if they were able to speak other languages apart from English.
something that makes you better when you are ill
a flu remedy
an effective herbal remedy for headaches
But it is debatable whether animals are held to widen our human understanding and to create new remedies to cure people from illnesses or if they are kept just to amuse people.
something that solves a problem
The remedy for the traffic problem is to encourage people to use public transport.
You should give your deputy more work, and have more free time, which I think is the best remedy in your case.
If you remember a fact or something from the past, you keep it in your mind, or bring it back into your mind.
I can't remember his name.
I don't remember signing a contract.
Just as the door closed he remembered that his keys were inside the room.
"Where did you park the car?" "I can't remember."
Can you remember what she said?
I seem to remember him as a rather short man.
But do you remember? I am a vegetarian now.
to not forget to do something
Did you remember to call Isabel?
Remember to bring your passport.
Remember to write me a letter.
to make someone remember something, or remember to do something
Remind me to post this letter.
Could you remind Paul about dinner on Saturday?
I rang Jill and reminded her that the conference had been cancelled.
Dan I'm writing you this email to remind you that tonight we will be going to the cinema with some of my friends.
something that makes you remember something else
If he forgot to pay his rent, his landlady would send him a reminder.
"Time is precious" is not interpreted as "carpe diem", but rather as a constant reminder of all our duties, that should be done in as little time as possible to prove ourselves effective.
the feeling that you are sorry for something bad that you have done
He has shown no remorse for his actions.
At first she thought someone wanted her to feel remorse for not being with her husband when he needed her.
far away
It was a remote mountain village with no electricity supply.
His voice sounded remote.
She grew up in a remote area in the North East of Thailand.
far in time
in the remote past
Understanding leads to tolerance, which is absolutely necessary in order to save old customs, traditions or even primitive tribes whose ideas might seem very remote to us.
slight
There is a remote possibility that it could be cancer.
While it seemed only a remote possibility, she regarded it as a game she would like, and had the right to, play.
a piece of equipment that is used to control something such as a television or toy from a distance
Have you seen the remote control anywhere?
TV - a powerful force that keeps us glued for endless hours every day, unable to press the "Off" button on the remote control.
to take something away
The men came to remove the rubbish from the backyard.
An operation was needed to remove the bullets from his chest.
I'm going to remove the wardrobe and get a new one!!
to take something off
Liz removed her jacket and hung it on a chair.
Carefully remove the lid, then stir the paint.
After, I was drenched to the skin and I had to remove all my clothes before going into the restaurant, I let you imagine how ashamed I was when I went into the restaurant completely naked!
to make someone stop doing their job
He had been removed from his job on medical grounds.
to be very different from something
The princess's world was far removed from reality.
It is the same problem with planned excursions to street markets in Asia, souks in Arabia or even tribes that are far removed from industrialized life in Papua New Guinea or the rainforest of Brazil.
to give someone a decision, opinion, help, etc
payment for services rendered
Finally, the students have only a 5% discount for the services rendered by the arts centre in contrast to the fact that we agreed initially that a 10% discount would be more adequate.
to cause something or someone to be in a particular state or condition
The trees rendered the road as dark as a tunnel.
She was rendered speechless upon hearing the news.
Inadequate medical care coupled with inevitable worsening of constitution, which is a usual concomitant of an elderly age, renders the old exposed to illnesses and injuries which may wreak havoc with their lives.
to arrange to continue an official agreement that was going to end soon
I've decided not to renew my membership of the tennis club this year.
I forgot to renew my season ticket.
As I had never been abroad before, I hurriedly went to an office where we can apply for a passport or renew it.
A renewable form of energy can be produced as quickly as it is used.
a renewable energy source such as wind power
But the use of renewable energy sources is always a challenge.
A renewable official agreement is one that you can arrange to continue when the time limit is reached.
a 6-month renewable contract
This seemed like a good enough alternative, but last week I was overwhelmed by the proposal from the company I worked for in London, of going back and working for another 6-month renewable contract, on a shift basis.
when you renew an agreement, contract, etc.
Their licence is up for renewal.
I suggest we negotiate a new agreement next year, when the current agreement will be due for renewal.
the process of repairing and improving something
They have spent millions on the renewal of the rail system.
Like the farmer who carefully tends his plot of fertile land, we should make constructive use of our free time, so that we can reap the benefits of spiritual renewal and rejuvenation, and to fully enjoy the fruits of our labour.
to repair and decorate a building that is old and in bad condition
He has a business renovating old buildings.
We should also renovate the library and extend the opening hours.
the act of repairing and decorating a building that is old and in bad condition
They spent all their savings on the renovation of an old cottage.
Dear Principal, In response to your memo, I am writing to provide you with some suggestions concerning the renovation of theSports Centre, on behalf of the member of the student committee.
famous
The Lake District is renowned for its beauty.
Maria Sandoral is a talented young artist who, at the age of 23, has far more background than a lot of artists. ... She is renowned for her restless attitude, and for her deep interest in the field.
the amount of money that you pay to live in a building that someone else owns
I pay a higher rent than the other tenants because my room is bigger.
Rents here are very high/low.
I think I have left my wallet in your house. Please look for it and call me because I have to pay the rent tomorrow.
to pay money to live in a building that someone else owns
He'll be renting an apartment until he can find a house to buy.
I have rented a flat in Camden Town.
to pay money to use something for a short time
We could rent a car for the weekend.
I rented a car from a garage so that I could get about.
If you want, you can rent a car.
to allow someone to pay you money to live in your building
I rented out my house and went travelling for a year.
My Dad has a cottage which he rents (out) to tourists.
My uncle is trying to rent his house.
to organize something again in order to improve it
He's completely reorganized his schedule for the week.
We must focus our programme more on cultural exchange and less on work; the students gained very little in this six weeks so we must reorganise this to improve the experience.
to fix something that is broken or damaged
They're repairing the holes in the road at last.
I must get my bike repaired.
The garage said the car was so old it wasn't worth repairing.
I had my car repaired.
to improve a bad situation
It will take a long time to repair relations between the two countries.
The German government was not able to repair the damage caused by the crisis.
something that you do to fix something that is broken or damaged
My car is in the garage for repairs.
The repairs to the roof will be expensive.
My father sent it to the workshop for repair.
to be in good/bad condition
Most of the building is in very bad repair.
Cinemas and restaurants are necessary for all and we should also bear in mind that the existing sports facilities need renovation because they aren't in good repair.
to pay back money that you have borrowed
He had to sell his car to repay the loan.
We could make a deal, so that I could repay my debts.
to do something kind for someone who has done something to help you
What can I do to repay you for your kindness?
It's always a pleasure to see you and I hope I'll be able to repay your hospitality if you ever come to visit us in Cambridge.
to say or do something more than once
He repeated the number.
The test must be repeated several times.
"I don't know!" he repeated.
Would you mind repeating what you just said?
I'd like to repeat that interesting visit.
to tell someone something that someone else has told you
Please don't repeat what I've just told you to anyone else.
He had written he was sorry, he should not have done it, he wished he had not repeated what I told him, he would never do something like that again...
done or happening more than once
He has refused repeated requests to be interviewed.
There were so many people and so many repeated questions and so much noise at home.
many times
He telephoned repeatedly, begging her to return.
The European Union has repeatedly stressed the importance of language learning.
Once you pick up the new words and learn something, you need to say it repeatedly otherwise you will easily forget it.
when something is repeated
We don't want a repetition of last year's disaster.
This could in fact lead to a repetition of the mistakes of the past, when the paralyzed United Nations were, due to the small number and influence of neutral countries, a mere bystander to the risky arms-race fought out between the two nuclear superpowers.
doing or saying the same thing several times, especially in a way that is boring
a repetitive job
My grandparents used to say to my mum: "How can you wear it?! It hardly covers your bottom! When I was young..." (This is the beginning of a sentence when it starts to be little bit boring and extremely repetitive!)
to start using another thing or person instead of the one that you are using now
We're thinking of replacing our old TV with a new one.
The factory replaced most of its workers with robots.
And I'm going to replace the desk, because I don't have enough space to put a computer onto it.
to get something new because the one you had before has been lost or damaged
We'll have to replace this carpet soon.
I promised to replace the plate that I'd dropped.
I'm very sorry about it but don't worry because I bought another one to replace it.
to start to be used instead of the thing or person that is being used now
This system will replace the old one.
Tourism has replaced agriculture as the nation's main industry.
We felt very disappointed when we discovered that Danny had been replaced by an unknown and really bad actor.
to put something back in the place where it usually is
She picked up the books and carefully replaced them on the shelf.
Jane jumped up and carefully replaced the photo on the desk.
the thing or person that replaces something or someone
The agency sent a replacement for the secretary who resigned.
It's not going to be easy to find a replacement for you.
But the people responsible for the concert did their best to find a replacement.
the process of replacing something with something else
the replacement of existing computer equipment
replacement windows
But by using much larger desks, we will be able to use the equipment more efficiently and this will reduce the cost for the replacement of broken equipment.
to answer
"Where are you going?" I asked. "Home," he replied.
"I don't understand," she replied.
I replied that it was 12 o'clock.
He didn't reply to my email.
Please reply as soon as possible.
an answer
Her reply was short and unfriendly.
Have you had a reply to your email?
In reply to their questions, she just shrugged.
She sent me an email in reply.
I asked why, but he made/gave no reply.
I'm waiting for your reply to tell me when you will come.
to describe a recent event or situation, especially on television, radio, or in a newspaper
Jo Smith reports on recent developments.
She reported that the situation had changed dramatically.
A woman outside the shop reported seeing the gun.
The assassination was reported in all the newspapers.
You reported that other performers were second-rate.
to tell someone in authority that something has happened, especially an accident or crime
He should have reported the accident immediately.
Have you reported the fault to a technician?
Of course I reported it at the train station, but they couldn't find it when they searched the train.
a description of an event or situation
a news/weather report
a company's financial report
a report on climate change
I gave a report of the theft to the insurance company.
I'll be handing you a report on Chapter 7 the next day.
If something has reportedly happened or is reportedly a fact, people say it has happened or is true.
Two students were reportedly killed and several wounded.
Some types of birds have reportedly become extinct in the area.
someone whose job is to discover information about news events and describe them on television, radio, the Internet, or in a newspaper
He's a reporter for the local newspaper.
The reporters talked about her life, where she was born, and who her parents are.
to be equal to something
In practice the figure represents a 10% pay cut.
The cancellation of the new road project represents a victory for protesters.
It means recycling 90% of the office material that we usually use. This represents a profit to the company which would be given to the employees, so they are motivated.
to be the person from a country, school, etc. that is in a competition
He was chosen to represent France at the Olympics.
I was very fond of swimming so I was glad that I was the one to be picked to represent my swimming team at that particular competition.
to be a sign or symbol of something
The crosses on the map represent churches.
I think the sea represents life and the sacrifices we make.
to officially speak or do something for someone else because they have asked you to
The union represents over 200 employees.
They chose a famous lawyer to represent them.
We hereby inform you that we have subsequently commenced proccedings aimed at hiring a lawyer to represent our party in court, should such a step be necessary.
to show someone or something in a particular way, especially when this is done to influence other people's opinions
In the article, they were represented as evil exploiters of children.
Piggy, one of the main characters of the book Lord of the Flies, by William Golding, is represented as the typical fat boy with glasses.
the way someone or something is shown
an accurate representation of country life
Mildred is an establishment pet, the representation of the current society they are living in.
speaking or doing something officially for another person
Can he afford legal representation?
An old politician whose name I do not recall once said "Taxation without representation is tyranny" - nowadays this concept might be extended to corruption itself.
someone who speaks or does something officially for another person or group of people
The firm has two representatives in every European city.
Dear Mr Robertson, My name is ... and I am a student representative.
criticism of someone, especially for not being successful or not doing what is expected
There was a hint of reproach in his voice.
The article gave the impression that the teachers were above/beyond reproach.
Before they turned off the light, he saw disappointment and reproach in their eyes.
to criticize someone for not being successful or not doing what is expected
You've no reason to reproach yourself.
I know I shouldn't reproach myself for not giving her money.
to make a copy of something
The diagram is reproduced by permission of the original author.
MI5 operates two computers, one for word processing and another for scanning and reproducing prints, drawings and photos.
to repeat something so that it is the same as before
The new design unfortunately reproduced some of the problems of the earlier model.
We were unable to reproduce the results of our earlier research.
I overcame this by listening to tapes and by trying to reproduce the native speaker's sounds and stresses.
If people, animals, or plants reproduce, they produce babies or young animals or plants.
These organisms reproduce by dividing.
Primitive man had a few aims in life like to be born, to reproduce and die, and among them there were two other important priorities, to hunt and to eat.
a copy of something, especially a painting
The picture is a reproduction of a Manet.
It would be great if the park provided some flight simulators and a reproduction of a space shuttle (so that people get a feeling of how it is to be an astronaut).
the process of producing babies or young animals and plants
We are learning about reproduction in biology.
What will happen if we live longer but we don't slow down the reproduction of our species?
an animal which produces eggs and uses the heat of the sun to keep its blood warm
Tom liked the reptiles, especially the snakes and the lizards.
Even though the northern part of Italy has undergone rapid industrialisation, there remain large areas of wild uninhabited ground where a great number of wild animals (birds, reptiles, large mammals) can live.
a country with no king or queen but with an elected government
France is a republic.
Unfortunately in ancient Greece, although the notion of the republic and democracy were invented and quite successfully developed there, not being a noble citizen could be cruelly disappointing and painful.
known to be good and honest
a reputable organization
I believe such a reputable company as yours will not refuse to accept the responsibilities and prompt action will be taken in due course.
the opinion that people have about someone or something based on their behaviour or character in the past
The company has a worldwide reputation for quality.
Both hotels have a good reputation.
He quickly earned a reputation as an entertaining speaker.
My country has a great reputation for food.
when you politely or officially ask for something
They received hundreds of requests for more information.
His doctor made an urgent request for a copy of the report.
An application form is available on request.
The clause was added to the contract at her request.
The manager refused their request to leave work early.
I decided to reply to your request as soon as possible.
to politely or officially ask for something
We've requested a further two computers.
They requested that no photographs be taken in the church.
Visitors are requested not to walk on the grass.
I have to rent a car at the Hertz agency and request information about where the hotel is.
to need or demand something
Training to be a doctor requires a lot of hard work.
Please telephone this number if you require any further information.
Skiing down a steep slope requires total concentration.
Weddings are very different in our country and require a lot of preparation.
to officially demand that someone does something
You are required by law to produce a valid passport.
It may occur in the future that they are required to possess knowledge of something they didn't study at school in order to get a job.
something that you must do, or something you need
A good degree is a minimum requirement for many jobs.
Valid insurance is a legal requirement.
Students who fail to meet the requirements of the course will fail.
college entrance requirements
If you have any more requirements, please don't hesitate to contact me.
to save someone from a dangerous or unpleasant situation
Fifty passengers had to be rescued from a sinking ship.
The government has refused to rescue the company from bankruptcy.
A bomb had exploded and that boy rescued me from the accident.
when someone is saved from a dangerous or unpleasant situation
Lifeboats carry out many rescues every month.
an unsuccessful rescue attempt
Last Friday I saw one that was about two guys who were lost in the jungle for nine days, and the rescue team found them alive.
to help someone who is in a difficult situation
I forgot my purse but Anna came to the rescue and lent me some money.
when someone studies a subject in detail or tries to find information about a subject
scientific/medical research
a research program/laboratory
research into language development
They are conducting research into plant genetics.
I've done some research into the best beaches to visit.
I have been doing research about how well people dress, and I think I dress with care.
to study a subject in detail or to try to find information about a subject
He spent several years researching a rare African dialect.
She's researching possible cures for malaria.
He went online to research flights and hotels.
I had to write an article called Protect our Environment so I researched and studied a lot about it using the Internet and the library to find suitable details.
someone who does research as a job
Researchers uncovered new facts about his family.
As researchers find out more about animals, we learn more about them and because of this we learn more about the world.
a similarity between two people or things, especially in their appearance
There's a striking resemblance between Diane and her mother.
I must admit that Dick has a strong resemblance to Neolithic Man, but everyone loves him because he is so cheerful and talkative.
to be similar/not similar/somewhat similar, etc., to something or someone
He bears a resemblance to someone I used to know.
The city bears little resemblance to how it was 100 years ago.
The concert bore no resemblance to any other I have been to, firstly due to the location, and secondly thanks to the spontaneity, yet impressive precision of the performance - the two factors which created the unique atmosphere of the event.
to look like or be like someone or something
She resembles her father.
After the earthquake, the city resembled a battlefield.
However, the most representative Romanian resorts resemble the ones in the Alps and maybe even exceed them in the respect of popularity among all walks of life and affordability.
to feel angry and upset about a situation or about something that someone has done
I resent having to work late.
He resents the fact that she gets more money than he does.
More specifically, my cousin's husband and his family, neither of whom I knew very well, deeply resented this decision.
a feeling of anger about a situation that you think is unfair
If you treat your staff differently, it just causes resentment.
I was pleased by the variety of opinions presented; some of the writers expressed a blind faith that we can still learn from our previous mistakes, while others approached the subject with a surprising resentment of our past.
an arrangement that you make to have a seat on an aircraft, a room in a hotel, etc.
I'd like to make a table reservation for two people for 9 o'clock.
Please confirm your reservation in writing by Friday.
I can make a reservation if you want.
a doubt or a feeling that you do not agree with something completely
I still have reservations about her ability to do the job.
When all my friends wanted to do something "naughty", like ringing bells at people's homes and running away, I had reservations.
to arrange to have a seat on an aircraft, a room in a hotel, etc.
I'd like to reserve two seats on the 9:15 to Birmingham.
I reserved a double room at the Lamb Hotel.
I must go to the bus station to reserve seats for the bus at 17:30 pm.
to not allow people to use something because it is only for a particular person or for a particular purpose
This space is reserved for ambulances only.
These seats are reserved for the elderly and women with babies.
We will have free tent accommodation in an area reserved for the staff.
an area of land where animals and plants are protected
We visited a huge reserve in Kenya.
As soon as we reached Nakuru two days later, we entered the game reserve to have a look around before it got dark.
a supply of something that you keep until it is needed
emergency cash reserves
The dependence on oil is a menace because oil reserves will disappear and because at this time we have no other invention to replace it.
describes people who keep their feelings or thoughts private rather than showing them
Marcus is more reserved than his brother.
Mrs. James was a reserved and solitary person and she lived according to the way she wished to live.
a building where someone lives
the Governor's official residence
The two episodes in the book 'The colour of blood' that I've decided to write about are Cardinal Benn and Prime Minister meeting at the official residence, and the fatal mass in honour to the blessed martyrs.
someone who lives in a particular place
a resident of the UK/Australia
Local residents were angry at the lack of parking spaces.
We will have less anxious residents in cities, who will not hurry to go to work or will not be late home or at the office.
living in a place
She has been resident in Britain for most of her life.
My name is ANA AMURRIO, born in Spain (Madrid) twenty four years ago, and resident in your country since July of this year.
A residential area has only houses and not offices or factories.
It's a largely residential area with one or two shops.
'Varta' is situated in a quiet residential area and could be called 'a family restaurant'.
A residential course or job is one where you live at the same place as you study or work.
It's a residential course so I'll be away for a week.
to officially tell your employer that you are leaving your job
She resigned as headteacher.
Two directors have resigned from the company.
So Laura stepped into her boss's office, wished him a Merry Christmas and resigned.
when someone tells their employer that they are leaving their job
a letter of resignation
I handed in my resignation yesterday.
She had been so proud of herself no more than five minutes ago walking out of the editor's office after handing him her letter of resignation.
when you accept something that you do not like because you cannot easily change it
She accepted her illness with calm resignation.
He sighed with resignation and got up.
the quality of being resilient
She had the resilience to try again.
Their resilience had been pushed to the extreme and, but for their sheer longing for a child, they might have given up.
strong enough to get better quickly after damage, disappointment, illness, shock, etc.
Growth figures show that the economy is still fairly resilient.
He could not stand the thought of staying away from Bill, he was not that resilient.
to stop yourself from doing something that you want to do
I can't resist chocolate.
I just can't resist reading other people's mail.
How do we resist all these nice snacks, and stay slim?
to fight against something or someone that is attacking you
British troops resisted the attack for two days.
The Turkish civilization was poorer than the Greek civilisation and that is one more reason why the Greeks had to resist and fight their enemies.
when people disagree with a change, idea, etc. and refuse to accept it
resistance to political change
The only resistance comes from Jack, an aggressive and impetuous boy who places facts higher than speeches.
when someone fights against someone who is attacking them or competing against them
She didn't put up much resistance.
Their knowledge helped Hitler to prolong his resistance against the overwhelming superiority of the Allies.
an organization that secretly fights against an enemy that has taken control of its country
She was active in the resistance.
Despite the fact that the Germans were many and much more powerful, they faced many difficulties from the Greek resistance.
the ability of your body to not be affected by illnesses
Cold weather may lower the body's resistance to infection.
His physical resistance is exceptional, he is young, in perfect condition, healthy.
an official decision that is made after a group or organization have voted
Congress passed a resolution in support of the plan.
Our branch has submitted a resolution on housing to the conference.
India declared that the UN resolution about the ban on nuclear weapons was unfair.
a promise to yourself to do something
My New Year's resolution is to do more exercise.
As a New Year's resolution I decided to save some money in a jar for my husband.
the solution to a problem
a successful resolution to the crisis
It might help us to find alternative conflict resolutions.
to solve or end a problem or difficulty
an attempt to resolve the dispute
The student committee greatly appreciate your efforts to resolve our current problems, in particular improving and reconstructing our sports centre.
when you are very determined to do something
The training was tough, but his resolve never wavered.
Daniella's attention was focused on the scene and she was truly enjoying what was going on. This sight toughened Marco's resolve.
a place where many people go for a holiday
a seaside resort
a ski resort
I am in Kajdussdoset which is a famous holiday resort in Hungary, my country.
something that you do because everything else has failed
Soldiers were given the authority to shoot, but only as a last resort.
But forcing the child to believe in the way we would like it to believe should be used only as a last resort, after discussion and persuading, not before. PHRASAL VERB resort to sth/ doing sth PHRASAL VERB
to do something bad in order to achieve what you want, often because it is the only thing you can do to achieve it
I had to resort to threats to get my money back.
This is caused by a person's basic need for food: If someone can't get enough to eat he might have to resort to stealing.
something useful that a country, person, or organization has which they can use
natural resources
Britain's mineral resources include oil, coal and gas deposits.
With all the resources on the Net, I don't need to go to the library as often as I used to.
good at finding ways to solve problems
When we didn't have much money, we had to be more resourceful.
The tormentor was inventive, clever, resourceful and learned fast how to make the most ordinary objects (a moth, a crow) into a source of overwhelming fear for his victim.
when you admire someone because of their knowledge, skill, or achievements
She's an excellent teacher and I have the greatest respect for her.
New teachers have to earn the respect of their students.
I have met some fantastic players, especially George N, an experienced footballer who teaches me a lot about getting respect on and off the field, and he's been of great help to me.
when you are polite to someone, especially because they are older or more important than you
You should show more respect for your parents.
Teachers should be treated with respect.
She has no respect for her boss.
As for people who attend weddings, it's important for them to wear formal clothes to show their respect for the new couple.
in a particular way, or in many ways
The school has changed in many respects.
How's your friend Mike? He is in many respects better than a computer, isn't he? (Teasing you again, sorry).
relating to a particular thing
I am writing with respect to your letter of 24 June.
With respect to the ages of the members, they are between fifteen and twenty years old.
relating to a particular thing
I include payment in respect of your invoice of May 13th.
Instead of that, we should have more English grammar lessons - some of our English students are very interested in them, especially in respect of their exam this year.
to admire someone because of their knowledge, achievements, etc
I respect him for his honesty.
I deeply respect David for what he has achieved.
It's nice to have a friend who respects you and who you respect too.
If you respect someone's rights, customs, wishes, etc. you accept their importance and are careful not to do anything they would not want.
If you decide to do otherwise we will, of course, respect your wishes.
But the situation is getting worse because of the decisions of the European Union, which is trying to unify European education without respecting the wishes of the students, who are trying to stop this process.
behaving in a socially acceptable way or looking socially acceptable
a respectable family
a respectable hotel
But no one could think of a respectable doctor poisoning two of his patients, which is what he actually did.
large enough or good enough
She earns a respectable salary.
The final score was a respectable 2:1.
So we had to wait until he could confidently say to his parents, 'Look, I am an adult now, and I'm working for a large company with a respectable job, and I am going to get married if I want to.'
admired by people because of your knowledge, achievements, etc.
a highly respected doctor/politician
He is very well respected in the business world.
Looking at Pele's life, we discover that he was a respected man who did his best to help others and his country.
showing respect for someone or something
They treated us in a very respectful manner.
Were I not respectful of your work, I would say that your reporter did not attend this event and just imagined it.
in a respectful way
He always spoke to them very respectfully.
I respectfully request you, as a store manager, to personally look into this situation, assist in investigating the problem with the faulty equipment as a matter of urgency by sending round a qualified engineer and, if found unfixable, arrange for a new unit to be supplied.
relating to each of the people or things that you have just talked about
members of staff and their respective partners
Relatives and friends of the respective families were very successful in being guides for some hours.
in a way that relates to each of the people or things that you have just talked about
They scored 10 and 17 points, respectively.
Not only did we reach our target figure but also, 85% of the revenue generated went to the hospital, and only 10% and 5% were for entertainment costs and administration costs, respectively.
to say or do something as a reaction to something that has been said or done
To every question, he responded "I don't know."
I asked her what the time was, but she didn't respond.
The government has responded by sending food and medical supplies to the region.
How did she respond to the news?
The police respond to emergencies in just a few minutes.
The two men didn't respond so David closed the door.
an answer or reaction to something that has been said or done
Responses to our advertisement have been disappointing.
The President's comments provoked an angry response from students.
Her proposals met with an enthusiastic response.
The telephone is an easy way to contact others, better than writing a letter and waiting for a response.
as an answer to
I'm writing in response to your letter of 14 February.
I am writing in response to your advertisement, which appeared in the newspaper on November the 23rd, looking for a person to work at weekends in your cafe.
something that it is your job or duty to deal with
The head of the department has various additional responsibilities.
It is your responsibility to make sure that your homework is done on time.
She takes her responsibilities as a nurse very seriously.
Jenny, you have responsibility for clearing up the room after the class.
It is the country's responsibility to supply the schools with everything needed.
to say that you have done something or caused something to happen, especially something bad
No one has yet claimed responsibility for yesterday's bomb attack.
Sometimes he just takes all the responsibility for the projects, which he should not do, at least not alone.
to be the person whose duty is to deal with someone or something
I'm responsible for looking after the children during the lunch break.
Paul is directly responsible for the efficient running of the office.
The woman who is responsible for this club is very beautiful.
to be the person who caused something to happen, especially something bad
Who was responsible for the accident?
Sometimes walkers are also responsible for accidents, mainly when they are in a hurry.
showing good judgment and able to be trusted
a hardworking and responsible employee
Let's stay calm and try to behave like responsible adults.
Many big companies are now becoming more responsible about the way they operate.
I know it is a great responsibility looking after them but I think I am reliable and responsible.
A responsible job is important because you have to make decisions that affect other people.
It's a very responsible job, being a teacher.
The people who I admire in today's world are journalists. In my opinion, they have a very responsible job.
to relax or sleep because you are tired after an activity or because you are ill
The doctor told him that he should rest for a few days.
Pete's resting after his long drive.
The weather was particularly sunny there, so we decided to eat an ice-cream and to rest a little.
to stop using your eyes/feet/legs, etc. for a while because they are tired
He looked away from the computer screen to rest his eyes.
If something rests somewhere, or if you rest it somewhere, it is supported by something else.
She rested her elbows on the table.
This masterpiece, painted in shocking colours on an enormous canvas, shows an Indian, completely out of proportion, sitting on the ground and resting his head on his arms.
the part of something that remains, or the others that remain
I've got two bright students, but the rest are average.
I'll keep a third of the money and the rest is for you.
Have you got anything planned for the rest of the day?
Bring a pencil and some paper, the teacher will give us the rest of the material.
a period of time when you relax or sleep
Why don't you have a rest?
I must get some rest.
After walking a few miles, we stopped for a rest.
My doctor told me that I should get more rest.
to start something again that had stopped
They want to restart the talks.
On the other hand, according to our recent survey, the company is getting into a better situation than it was beginning of this year and wants to restart trading with us.
If you restart a computer, you turn it off and then on again.
Try restarting your computer.
a place where you can buy and eat a meal
We had lunch at/in a restaurant near the station.
Sometimes I'm very tired because I work in a restaurant.
unable to be still or relax because you are bored or nervous
The audience was getting restless.
The children that travel become very restless when they cannot see any movies or are not offered any games or any other entertainment from the staff.
not satisfied with what you are doing now and wanting something new
After a while in the same relationship I start to get restless.
She yearned for something different from her day-to-day life and grew increasingly restless.
to repair and clean something old
The badly neglected paintings have all been carefully restored.
He restores antique furniture.
For example, the old church could be restored, to be as beautiful as it used to be.
to make something good exist again
Three wins in a row helped restore the team's confidence.
Peace has now been restored in the region.
It would also restore our confidence in our paper if the correct version of events were printed, together with your statement of apology.
to stop someone doing something, sometimes by using force
He became violent and had to be physically restrained.
I had to restrain myself from shouting at him.
Were the people aware of the variety of our social programme, they would have undoubtedly restrained themselves from belittling our college.
calm and controlled behaviour
He showed admirable restraint and refused to be provoked.
In his opinion, a really professional butler should possess 'dignity', which means that he should not expose his feelings and should always be capable of emotional restraint even if he is being provoked by something very surprising, alarming or vexing.
to limit something
They've brought in new laws to restrict the sale of cigarettes.
The government has restricted freedom of movement into and out of the country.
I restrict myself to one cup of coffee a day.
We must try to restrict the use of water in agriculture.
controlled or limited
They do good food but the choice is fairly restricted.
The main problem with buses and the underground is their restricted opening hours and also the fact they don't go absolutely everywhere in the city.
a situation or event that limits what people can do
For the first time, I could do exactly what I wanted, without any restrictions.
When people travel on their own, they can do what they want, without restrictions or limitations from their family.
a rule or law that limits or controls what people can do
speed/parking restrictions
There are restrictions on how many goods you can bring into the country.
The president urged other countries to lift the trade restrictions.
Our world is becoming smaller and smaller: boundaries are erased from the maps, countries cooperate more intensively, and trade restrictions are falling away.
limiting activities too much
restrictive practices
On the other hand, being too restrictive may result in making the children passive, causing them to take everything for granted and leaving them completely unprepared for the harsh reality of life.
to organize a system or organization in a new way
They are restructuring the business.
Nowadays, the globalisation and merging trends are creating industrial giants that regularly have to restructure in order to minimise their production costs.
something that happens or exists because something else has happened
Most accidents are the result of human error.
Unemployment has risen as a direct result of new economic policies.
As a result, I am a bit cold now.
information that you get from something such as an exam, a scientific experiment, or a medical test
She's waiting for the results of a blood test.
the results of a survey
I joined this English class because of my bad exam result.
the score or number of votes at the end of a competition or election
The election results will be known by Sunday.
What was the result of this afternoon's match?
They were all so surprised about the result of the game Germany against Saudi Arabia that they welcomed me in a very friendly way.
to cause a particular situation to happen
The fire resulted in damage to their property.
It has resulted in a lack of repair services.
If an activity resumes, or if you resume it, it starts again after a pause.
The talks are due to resume today.
Normal services will be resumed in the spring.
He stopped to take a sip of water and then resumed speaking.
I hope our two companies can resume their excellent cooperation in the future and I am looking forward to using one of your aircraft again.
when products are sold to customers from shops
jobs in retail
Multinational companies like Walmart, Tesco, GSK, etc. have their retail outlets and manufacturing capacity all over the globe.
someone who sells products to the public
Retailers say the tax rise will hurt business.
They claim that retailers and advertisers brainwash us into buying more than necessary.
to continue to keep something
The council will retain control of the school.
But, one might claim, this could also be good, as people retain their local customs, lifestyle, etc. and do not have the anxiety or stress of living in cities.
when something continues to be kept
They argued against the retention of these laws.
Additional audio and video inputs allows easier assimilation and retention of this information.
to change what you think about something or what you plan to do
We need to rethink our strategy.
The first time I failed due to my nervousness. After this first failure I started to rethink my strategy.
to leave your job and stop working, usually because you are old
She retired from the company in 1990.
He is due to retire as chief executive next year.
Nowadays I'm free because I retired recently.
having stopped working, often because you are old
Both my parents are retired.
He is a retired airline pilot.
This person is a retired soldier who fought during World War II.
when you leave your job and stop working, usually because you are old
Many teachers over the age of 50 are taking early retirement.
What is the normal retirement age in this country?
Dear Pamela, I really like you and am happy about our sharing the same office but I'm afraid that, because of your way of life, you will never reach the age of retirement.
the period of your life after you have stopped working
We wish you a long and happy retirement.
Before my retirement, I spent some 11 years in the U.S., Germany and Switzerland where I learned a lot about the different cultures and people's customs and manners.
to go back somewhere the same way that you came
I was lost so I retraced my steps.
Mentally retracing his steps of the morning, he remembered rushing out of his place at the last minute.
When soldiers retreat, they move away from the enemy, especially to avoid fighting.
The army was forced to retreat.
to go away to a place or situation which is safer or quieter
She retreated into the bathroom for some peace and quiet.
Many unemployed retreat into family life and give up social contact.
a move away, especially to a place or situation which is safer or quieter
He saw the dog coming towards him and beat a hasty retreat.
So the best he could do was to beat a quick retreat and make for the nearest airport.
a quiet place where you can go to rest or be alone
a mountain retreat
The park is a retreat, a hiding place where asylum can be found, a place in which peace and harmony are interlinked.
to get something after first finding it
I've just retrieved the ball from the bottom of the pond.
computer tools for retrieving information
No university should let students loose on society and the labour market who do not know how to save, find and retrieve files on a computer, send an attachment via email, install an operating system, install a printer or perform any of those simple tasks that take up your day at work - if your place of work has a desk in it.
thinking now about something in the past
In retrospect, I should probably have told her.
But now I could in retrospect conclude that it was too much: that tattoo displaying a cannabis leaf should have been enough for me to at least wonder whether something was really wrong with my son.
to go or come back to a place where you were before
He returned to Nigeria in 2009.
I won't return from my holiday till May.
She left Sweden at the age of 25 and never returned.
She will return to Turkey next Friday.
to give, send, or put something back where it came from
I have to return the book by Friday.
He immediately returned the records to the files.
The new TV broke so they returned it to the shop.
Can you return it to me, please?
to start doing an activity again or talking about something again
I returned to work three months after Susie was born.
We keep returning to the same subject.
In August I must return to school, so I can only go to California in July.
to happen again or start to exist again
You must go to the doctor if the pain returns.
This made her calm down all of a sudden, and her voice returned.
to react to something that someone does or says by doing or saying the same
I returned his smile.
I must return Michael's call.
I still can't understand why she never returned my calls.
to go back to a previous condition
Life has begun to return to normal now that the war is over.
After exactly ten minutes the electricity was switched on again and our life returned to normal - what a relief!
when someone goes or comes back to a place where they were before
The whole town came out to celebrate his return from the war.
On his return to Sydney, he started up a business.
But on the return from Zurich we had an accident and the car has been destroyed.
a ticket that lets you travel to a place and back again, for example on a train
Could I have two returns to Birmingham?
a key on a computer keyboard that is used to make the computer accept information or to start a new line in a document
Type in the password and press return.
in exchange for something or as a reaction to something
I'd like to give them something in return for everything they've done for us.
I had a great time and in return I'd love to invite you to live at my house, while you are in Poland.
an occasion when people who have not met each other for a long time meet again
a family/school reunion
So important was this family event that holidays were postponed, to be there in time for the family reunion.
to give someone a piece of information that is surprising or that was previously secret
He was jailed for revealing secrets to the Russians.
It was revealed in this morning's papers that the couple intend to marry.
I immediately knew that something was wrong so I had a word with Pat. She denied having revealed my secret.
to allow something to be seen that, until then, had been hidden
His shirt came up at the back, revealing an expanse of white skin.
The ghost disappeared and, with suspicion, she got up and started to move towards the ring, which was still there on the wall, and eventually touched it: the stone block moved back and revealed an old diary.
a piece of information that is discovered although it was intended to be kept secret
He resigned following revelations about his private life.
No, the mayor didn't know, but said he was looking forward to any more revelations about their heroic community member.
to be an extremely pleasant surprise
Anna's musical talent was a revelation.
Every word you said was a revelation to me.
something that you do to punish someone who has done something bad to you
He's made life very difficult for me but I'll get/take my revenge.
He was looking for revenge against those who had helped oust him from his leadership position.
Lew Kuan Yee had sworn revenge against Michael, the detective who had sent him behind bars.
large amounts of money received by a government as tax, or by a company
Revenue was up in the last quarter.
People like them need to compete for time as travelling via public transport may mean a loss of revenue.
when something changes to its opposite
In a reversal of traditional roles, Paul stayed at home to look after the baby and Clare went out to work.
However, unfortunately for Kingshaw, this reversal of the roles is just temporary for, once again in the house, Hooper is elected as King and Kingshaw has to submit to the role of victim once more.
to drive a vehicle backwards
I hate reversing into parking spaces.
She reversed the car into the parking space.
Inch by inch, I reversed and went forward, reversed and went forward... too far!
to change a situation or change the order of things so that it becomes the opposite
Now that you have a job and I don't, our situations are reversed.
It is unlikely that the judge will reverse his decision.
Let's reverse the order - I'll give the first talk and you go second.
This trend should be reversed in the near future.
in the opposite order or way
Do the same steps but this time in reverse.
They want to see what they are not like, how they would not react and this, in reverse, helps them to find themselves.
the method of controlling a vehicle that makes it go backwards
Put the car into reverse.
I had a last good look around and then I returned to the car and put it into reverse.
the opposite of what has been suggested
"So, is he happier?" "Quite the reverse - I've never seen him look so miserable."
However, it is common fallacy among youngsters that being a freelancer leaves a lot of time for rest. Quite the reverse, they are inclined to put even more pressure on themselves, as there are no fixed hours.
If something is reversible, it can be changed back to what it was before.
Most of the damage done to the cells is reversible.
The friendship that I thought was for life stopped somewhere and somehow in an unexpected way, which didn't allow us to make the situation reversible.
Reversible clothes can be worn so that the inside is the outside.
a reversible jacket
Almost every look had that oversized feel from a loose reversible black and orange coat worn with a long white shirt.
to go back to how something was before
For a while I ate low-fat food but then I reverted to my old eating habits.
Piggy is one of the few boys who are conscious that they are reverting to savagery.
to give your opinion in a report about a book, film, television programme, etc.
He reviews films for the Times.
to consider something again in order to decide if changes should be made
The courts will review her case.
The committee is reviewing the current arrangement.
On the other hand I would like to ask you kindly to review my conditions of employment and to take in consideration my expenses, which I think would be more than correct.
a report in a newspaper, magazine, or programme that gives an opinion about a new book, film, etc.
He writes film/theatre/book reviews for the newspapers.
Her latest novel has had/received excellent reviews.
The film has had mixed reviews.
I was thinking we should see "Show Bar", the review is good!
the process of considering something again in order to make changes to it
a review of teachers' pay
Salary levels are under review at the moment.
to study a subject before you take a test
She's revising for her English exam.
Well, I have to leave it here because I have a History exam tomorrow and I haven't revised, yet.
to change something so that it is more accurate or better than before
His publishers made him revise his manuscript three times.
I advise you to revise your schedule.
when you study a subject before taking a test
She did lots of revision for her French exam.
Dear Pete, Although I received your letter last week, I haven't been able to answer until now as I am busy with revision for my English exams.
when something becomes more active or popular again
a revival in folk music
Yoga is enjoying a revival.
In recent years the fear of society has led to a revival of conservative ideas that want to shift responsibility for this kind of education back to the family unit.
to make something from the past exist again
to revive memories
A lot of traditional skills are currently being revived.
Why not revive the "good old" reading sessions we had in many town libraries in the 70s and 80s?
to try to change a government, often using violence, or to refuse to accept someone's authority
Many were killed when nationalists revolted against the new government.
What often happens, if money is the substitute for love, is that children revolt against their parents.
to think that something is extremely unpleasant
They were revolted by conditions on the farm.
They are revolted by Olivia's decision which also shows the condescending opinion they have of the Nawab.
a change in the way a country is governed, usually to a different political system and often involving violence or war
The French Revolution changed France from a monarchy to a republic.
It's supposed to be read as a study of the Soviet dictatorship during the October revolution and beyond into the Cold War era.
a very important change in the way that people do things
a technological revolution
Penicillin produced a revolution in medicine.
The technological revolution taking place today can be directly linked to the amazing evolution of our communication abilities throughout these last years.
completely different from what was done before
The twentieth century brought about revolutionary changes in our lifestyles.
Maybe my ideas are too revolutionary but ... I think in this way Torino would be NICER!
involved in or relating to a revolution
a revolutionary leader/movement
Several revolutionary organizations combined to form the new party.
something good that you get or experience because you have worked hard, behaved well, etc.
There'll be a reward for whoever finishes first.
I told her she could choose a toy as a reward for her good behaviour.
Things improved even more in the evening, when dad let me go to the cinema with my friends, as a reward for getting such good results at Maths.
an amount of money given to someone for helping to find something or for helping the police to return stolen property
The police offered a reward for any information about the robbery.
And as a reward, my father took out RM500 and gave it to the bystander.
to give someone a reward
She was rewarded for her bravery.
The company rewarded him for his years of service with a gold watch.
She was so happy afterwards and was even rewarded with a medal.
making you feel satisfied that you have done something well or done something helpful
a rewarding experience
Teaching is hard work but it's very rewarding.
I led a workshop with children, which was a very rewarding experience, and performed for people of all ages and backgrounds.
to write something again in order to improve it
I had to rewrite my essay.
I trust you will give this matter your immediate attention and rewrite your report using the information given.
If a word rhymes with another word, the end part of the words sound the same.
'Moon' rhymes with 'June'.
a short poem that has words that rhyme at the end of each line
The card contained a short rhyme.
It gives a child immense pleasure when her parent reads out a rhyme or a story to her.
a style of writing or speaking that uses words which rhyme
The story was written entirely in rhyme.
The poem had no rhyme and it had a free verse form.
a regular, repeating pattern of sound or movement
He beat out a jazz rhythm on the drums.
I've got no sense of rhythm, so I'm a terrible dancer.
She lay back in the boat, feeling the gentle rhythm of the waves.
From then on I have been suffering from high blood pressure and disturbances of the rhythm of the heart-beat.
one of the curved bones in the chest
He cracked a rib in the accident.
I stayed there for 2 weeks with a broken leg, sore ribs and a couple of scars.
a long, narrow piece of cloth that is used for tying things or used for decoration
Her hair was tied with a velvet ribbon.
Just a week before, the wedding family and close friends come together to decorate the tent with special hand-folded ribbons.
small grains from a plant that are cooked and eaten
boiled/fried rice
Do you prefer brown or white rice?
I like rice and fish.
having much more money than most people, or owning things that could be sold for a lot of money
She's from a very rich family.
He's the third richest man in the country.
They're one of the world's richest nations.
I got many CDs, DVDs and clothes, but the best present was a 72" Plasma television that I received from our rich friend, Richie Rich.
Rich food has a lot of fat, oil or eggs in it.
a rich sauce
The cooking is based on traditional recipes of Westfalian origin and it is tasty but often very rich!
containing a lot of something that is important or valuable
The region is rich in minerals and coal deposits.
Both foods are rich in Vitamin C.
The country has vast oil reserves and rich deposits of other minerals.
Their lessons are valuable, rich in knowledge and funny.
people who are rich
These ski resorts are for the rich.
What did the rich do all day?
a lot of money or valuable objects
To her, £500 seemed like untold riches.
First, her career can be regarded as the typical rise from "rags to riches".
the interesting or impressive quality of something that shows how strong or varied it is
I was amazed by the richness of their traditions.
Cultures of Mexico: You will be able to discover the richness and variety of Mexican ancient cultures: - Mexica - Maya - Olmeca - Tolteca - Zapoteca - Chichimeca.
to throw something away or give something to someone because you no longer want it
We must get rid of some of those old books.
Do you think I'd better get rid of the sofa and place the bookshelf there?
to end something unpleasant
I can't seem to get rid of this headache.
The first step is to get rid of smoking.
to make someone leave
We finally got rid of my little sister by telling her scary stories.
Improving your English on your own (or a self-guide on how to get rid of your English teacher!)
to travel by sitting on a horse, bicycle, or motorcycle and controlling it
I learned to ride a bike when I was four.
I ride my bicycle to work.
I've ridden on a donkey.
My aunt kept horses and she taught me to ride.
I like riding my bike in Gloucester.
a journey in a vehicle or train
It's a short bus ride to the airport.
Can I give you a ride to the station?
He asked me for a ride into town.
On the next day, I went swimming in the lake early in the morning and took a bus ride home after that.
a journey riding a bicycle, motorcycle, or horse
He's gone out for a ride on his bike.
Do you want to come for a ride on my motorbike?
I swam in the sea, sunbathed on the golden beach and had a ride on a scooter.
a machine at a fair which moves people up and down, round in circles, etc. as they sit in it
She wanted me to go on a ride with her.
I really enjoyed myself a lot. Although I was scared on the rides, in my opinion that funfair we visited was fantastic!
a time when you experience a lot of problems
They gave her a rough ride at the interview.
It seems like it is going to be a "bumpy" ride.
someone who rides a horse, bicycle, or motorcycle
One of the riders was thrown off his horse.
A lot of good riders will come with their horses to take part in a competition.
very silly
I've never heard anything so ridiculous.
I'd look ridiculous in a hat like that.
It's a ridiculous idea/suggestion.
So, it is just ridiculous to hear that there were fewer than 2000 people there.
correct or true
He only got half the answers right.
You're right about Alison - she's incredible!
"You came here in 1979, didn't you?" "That's right."
You're right!
on or towards the side of your body that is to the east when you are facing north
Most people write with their right hand.
There's a tree on the right side of the house.
He saw a man running away holding a gun in his right hand.
suitable or best in a particular situation
I'm not sure she's the right person for the job.
Are we going in the right direction?
I know that you will make the right choice!
fair or morally acceptable
It's not right to criticize him behind his back.
Someone had to tell him - I think you did the right thing.
Was he doing the right thing or he was just making matters worse?
to the side of your body that is to the east when you are facing north
Turn/Go right at the first traffic lights.
When you go from the city, at the first roundabout turn right.
used at the beginning of a sentence to get someone's attention or to show you have understood someone
Right, whose turn is it to tidy up?
Right, so Helen's coming tomorrow and Trevor on Thursday.
exactly in a place or time
He's right here with me.
I fell asleep right in the middle of her speech.
They live right in the centre of the city.
That's me, right here.
immediately
Do you want to start right away?
I would love to see your new trousers but I'm busy right now.
correctly
He guessed right most of the time.
all the way
Did you read it right through to the end?
As time passes by, Ralph learns about Piggy's value as he is the only one that stays with him right to the end.
the right side of your body, or the direction towards this side
You'll find her in the second room on the right.
On the right there is a wardrobe and a table with a chair.
morally correct behaviour
I've tried to teach them the difference between right and wrong.
He was raised not knowing the difference between right and wrong.
something that the law allows you to do
the right to free speech
the right to vote
To sum up, famous people are the same as we are, and we all have the right to lead a private life and no right to break into their privacy.
to have, or not have, a good reason for something
He has a right to be angry.
She had no right to speak to me like that.
Finally, you have no right to say that we "did not reach our target figure" since the whole event was considered to be a success by many people.
political groups which support capitalism
The right campaigned against the president.
in a way that does not rely on anything or anyone else
I think this is a dialect, rather than a language in its own right.
These experiments are very important in their own right.
Major international sports competitions can either be understood as a means to an end or an end in their own right.
used to express agreement with someone
"Johnny, you climb up first." - "Right!"
on or to the right of something
On the right-hand side you'll see a sign.
You can see my house on the right-hand side.
in a correct way
He is rightly concerned about the situation.
They quite rightly complained to the manager.
If I remember rightly, there were over 5,000.
supporting the ideas of parties on the political right
She's extremely right-wing.
a right-wing newspaper
Some of them even turn to right-wing extremism.
not able to change or be changed easily
I found the rules a little too rigid.
They were all trying to do their best in the rigid framework of the existing system (one of them even succeeded in making the difference).
a round piece of jewellery that you wear on your finger
a wedding ring
He bought her a diamond ring.
Sammy gave me a gold ring, Remi an orange sweater, Minny a bag and Dominique a red cap.
to telephone someone
If you want anything, just give me a ring.
If you find them, please give me a ring.
something that is the shape of a circle
The children sat in a ring around the teacher.
It is forced to jump into a ring of fire, if it does not want to do it, it will be hit.
the sound a bell makes
The ring of the doorbell woke him up.
Walking down the street, he heard a noise: just the ring of the clock tower.
to telephone someone
Have you rung your mother?
I rang earlier but you were out.
Can you ring for a taxi?
I ring home once a week.
Please ring me tonight.
If something rings, it makes the sound of a bell, and if you ring a bell, you cause it to make a sound.
The phone's ringing.
I rang the doorbell.
Me and a few of my friends were having a day off school so we went to a lovely beach by the Danube river, when my phone rang.
If a word, especially a name, rings a bell, you think you have heard it before.
Shane Watson? That name rings a bell.
Its name is Laser - I suppose it rings a bell?
If something someone says rings hollow, it does not sound true or sincere.
He said he was pleased, but his words rang hollow.
Everything rang hollow to her, so she decided to follow him in order to understand what had happened and her fiancé became so friendly and understanding.
angry, violent behaviour by a crowd of people
a race riot
Riots started in several cities.
A riot started in the city but the police managed to stop it before anyone got seriously hurt.
extremely colourful and bright
Jim's rose garden is a riot of colour.
I like the narrow streets, the smell of overripe fruit in the middle of the summer, the gardens, which are a riot of colours in spring, small thatched cottages, which you can never see anywhere else in Russia.
to behave in a noisy, violent, or wild way without being controlled
They allow their kids to run riot.
to take part in a riot
People were rioting in the streets.
If there are a lot of frustrated individuals in an area, they may band together and begin rioting.
to tear quickly and suddenly, or to tear something quickly and suddenly
His new trousers ripped when he bent down.
She ripped her dress getting off her bike.
He excitedly ripped open the parcel.
While I was walking I stepped on my dress and ripped it.
to remove something by pulling it away quickly
Hedges had been ripped out to make larger fields.
One leg was completely ripped off, while the other is just managing to hold on.
developed enough and ready to be eaten
ripe fruit
Those bananas aren't ripe yet - they're still green.
There were a lot of beautiful, ripe, red strawberries and I couldn't resist picking one of them.
developed enough to be ready for something
The country is ripe for change.
The time is ripe for investing in new technology.
We can say that the time was ripe for his success.
when someone is cheated by being made to pay too much for something
The food there is a real rip-off.
What is more, I am sure students won't feel like it is a rip-off because prices are really reasonable.
When the sun or moon rises, it appears in the sky.
The sun rises in the East.
It was very beautiful, especially in the morning when the sun was rising.
to move up
The balloon rose gently up into the air.
to increase in level
rising temperatures
Prices rose by 10 percent.
Inflation is rising by 2.1% a month.
Also, due to global warming, sea levels might rise and the risk of flooding will also rise.
to become important, successful, or rich
He quickly rose to stardom.
He then joined the company he is now the managing director of; during 15 years, he steadily rose through the ranks to the top.
an increase in the level of something
a sudden temperature rise
a 5% rise in inflation
August has seen a large rise in the number of unemployed.
There is also a steady rise in underweight girls among young girls of today.
an increase in the amount of money you earn
a pay rise
The reason is not only that we cannot manage to afford a pay rise for each of you but also we would like to organise two language courses in the USA.
when someone becomes very famous or powerful
The movie charts his rise to power.
He is one of these artists whom I respect immensely as his rise to celebrity was a long and painstaking journey, mainly because he was always faithful to the kind of music he wanted to play and to the ideals he wanted to convey through his lyrics, and also because he shows great modesty.
to cause something
International support has given rise to a new optimism within the company.
The bacteria live in the human body but do not give rise to any symptoms.
More often than not, however, such events will also give rise to all sorts of contradictions.
the possibility of something bad happening
the risk of heart disease
There is a slight risk that the blood could have become infected.
We want clean rivers and lakes, where you can swim without risk to your health.
It's a low/high-risk strategy.
Nowadays, everything is a risk, even at home we are in danger.
being in a situation where something bad is likely to happen
All houses within 100 metres of the seas are at risk of flooding.
Releasing these prisoners puts the public at risk.
Lives are at risk!
to do something although something bad might happen because of it
This time I'm not taking any risks - I'm going to get insured.
He had to take a risk if he wanted to save his love, Anne.
something bad that might happen
There are more health risks when older women get pregnant.
Personally, I will continue using my mobile phone, no matter what the health risks are, and I will probably encourage my children to have one with them when they go places further away than our home or garden, in case something happens.
to do something although something bad might happen because of it
I think I'll run the risk of hurting her feelings, and tell her the truth.
They constantly run the risk of losing their physical abilities.
If you do something at your own risk, you are completely responsible for anything bad that might happen because of it.
Customers may leave vehicles here at their own risk.
However, when a young man decides to go on a dangerous expedition, he should do so at his own risk and should not rely on help from anyone.
If you risk something bad, you do something although that bad thing might happen.
"It's dangerous to cross here." "I'll just have to risk it."
You shouldn't risk damaging your health.
If you risk something important, you cause it to be in a dangerous situation where you might lose it.
He risked his life to save me.
She risked her job by giving me that information.
If she had gone home by taxi, she would have not risked her life.
dangerous because something bad might happen
It's risky to buy a car without some good advice.
Investing in shares is always a risky business.
Cycling on this road is a bit risky and demanding so I would agree with Chris on that point.
an activity or a set of actions that are always done in the same way or at the same time, sometimes as part of a religion
Coffee and the paper are part of my morning ritual.
I want to be able to travel to another country (for example Jamaica), learn a new culture (like the Rastafarian culture) and their rites and rituals.
someone or something that is competing with another person or thing
business/political rivals
Around 60% of our international rivals had their stands there, usually with 2-3 staff members always kept busy by the public.
to be good enough to compete with someone or something else
Australian wine can now rival the best from France.
His intimidating presence was rivalled only by that of his ferocious-looking dog.
when two people or things are rivals
There is intense rivalry between the two teams.
These major differences create a great rivalry between the two boys.
a long, natural area of water that flows across the land and into a sea, lake, or another river
the River Thames
Two major rivers flow through the town.
We sailed slowly down/up the river.
I like to walk by the river Exe.
where a river goes into the sea
It is a small village, by the mouth of a river.
The mouth of the river with a narrow exit to the sea, provided an extra excitement because of the pressure of the water when joining the sea.
a long, hard surface built for vehicles to drive on
We live on a busy/main road.
Be careful when you cross the road.
The journey takes about three hours by road.
The road from here to Adelaide goes through some beautiful countryside.
All roads into/out of the town were blocked by the snow.
Most road accidents are caused by people driving too fast.
On Wednesdays and Saturdays the road is very busy.
used in the name of a road as part of an address
142 Park Road
I like different places in U.K., like Edgware Road.
driving or travelling, usually over a long distance
We'd been on the road for 48 hours.
I have experienced sitting behind a steering wheel on the road for many years.
to make a loud, deep sound
We could hear a lion roaring on the other side of the zoo.
She roared with laughter.
There are also unforgettable immediate responses that will make people roar with laughter.
to say something in a very loud voice
"Stop that!" he roared.
"Stop clicking that picture box and help me with the cows," her father would roar and if it was not the cows, it was the pigs, and if it was not the pigs, it was the hens.
a loud, deep sound
a lion's roar
the roar of a jet engine
However, I will try to portray an accurate picture of what living under the constant roar of aircraft engines is about.
If you roast food, you cook it in an oven or over a fire, and if food roasts, it is cooked in an oven or over a fire.
Roast the lamb in a hot oven for 35 minutes.
The potatoes are roasting in the oven.
After we have baby lamb which is roasted in the special oven with potatoes.
cooked in an oven or over a fire
roast chicken
But the specialities in every celebration are roast pork and roast chicken.
to steal from someone or somewhere, often using violence
to rob a bank
Two tourists were robbed at gunpoint in the city centre last night.
They robbed the company of £2 million.
About twenty tourists were robbed.
to take something important away from someone
The war had robbed them of their innocence.
The white man came and deprived the Africans of all their culture. They tried to make them worship a new, unfamiliar god and simply tried to rob them of their own identity.
the crime of stealing from somewhere or someone
a bank robbery
The gang admitted they had committed four recent robberies.
He is in prison for armed robbery.
We were fed up with our lives and all the problems we had so one of us decided to organize a bank robbery. At first we laughed at him because it was such a silly idea but finally it was the only solution for us to become rich.
a machine controlled by a computer, which can move and do other things that people can do
They use robots to spray the cars.
I think there will be tall buildings and the population will rise a lot. I think there will be robots too.
loud, modern music with a strong beat, often played with electric guitars and drums
rock music
a rock group
a rock star
I like rock music.
the hard, natural substance which forms part of the Earth's surface, or an area of this substance sticking out of the sea or ground
a layer of rock
Mountains and cliffs are formed from rock.
The boat struck a rock outside the bay and sank.
We climbed over the rocks and reached the sea.
There are many wonderful hills, mountains, lakes, caves and rocks.
to move backwards and forwards or from side to side, or to make someone or something do this
She rocked back and forth on her chair.
He gently rocked the baby to sleep.
The violent storm was rocking the ship back and forth.
to do or say something that changes a situation in a way that causes problems
They seemed very happy and I didn't want to rock the boat.
But let's not rock the boat. Our preposterous cravings and wishes might become our downfall.
a tube-shaped device containing fuel and an engine that pushes a vehicle into space
They launched a rocket yesterday.
With computers, you can control machines or a rocket or a satellite.
a tube-shaped weapon that carries a bomb
Rockets were fired across the border.
Furthermore, nuclear rockets and missiles should be prohibited.
with lots of rocks
a rocky beach
The walk around the lake is an extraordinary experience - seeing the majesty of the rocky mountains around the blue surface, which reflects the lights as a mirror, is unforgettable.
a rocky relationship has problems and may not last
I heard that their marriage is a bit rocky.
Their marriage started to get a bit rocky due to the mother's devotion to finding Mary.
an actor's part in a film or play
She's got a leading/supporting role in the school play.
He plays the role of a violent criminal.
Jack Nicholson, my favourite actor, plays the main role.
the job someone or something has in a particular situation
What is his role in this project?
This part of the brain plays an important role in learning.
Six people have been put on trial for their role in the demonstrations.
In fact, computers play an important role in the office.
someone you try to behave like because you admire them
Jane is such a good role model for her younger sister.
Pele was voted Athlete of the Century for his outstanding performance and for being such a positive role model for other athletes and youth in general.
to move somewhere by turning in a circular direction, or to make something move this way
The ball rolled through the goalkeeper's legs.
She rolled over onto her side.
The vase rolled off the edge of the table and smashed.
to turn something around itself to make the shape of a ball or tube
He was rolling a cigarette.
He rolled the clay into a ball in his hands.
As I got closer, the hedgehog rolled itself up into a ball.
to move somewhere smoothly
Tears rolled down her face.
His car started rolling down the drive.
By this time, the rest of us were laughing so hard that tears were rolling down our cheeks.
to move your eyes so that they are looking up, usually to show surprise or disapproval
When I asked her when she thought the building work would be finished, she just rolled her eyes.
This attitude is obvious when, for instance, shop assistants show no patience for the slower reaction of elderly people; when nobody offers a seat to an older person in an overcrowded tube; when we roll our eyes about older people's desire for quiet, etc.
to begin an activity that involves a group of people
I've started the ball rolling by setting up a series of meetings.
a small loaf of bread for one person
I had a roll with my soup.
We eat ham, cheese, butter and paprika, with a roll or bread.
a piece of film, paper or cloth that is rolled into the shape of a tube
a roll of carpet
a toilet roll
I put a new roll of paper in the holder.
an exciting relationship of love between two people, often a short one
It was just a holiday romance.
Office romances are usually a bad idea.
I like it very much because it has romance and action, and cats of course.
relating to feelings of love and affection
a romantic dinner for two
And the atmosphere in the evening is so romantic!
relating to a story about love
romantic fiction
a romantic comedy
It was interesting but romantic novels are my favourite books!
thinking that things are better than they really are, and that things are possible which are not
a romantic view of the world
She has a romantic idea of what it's like to be a struggling young artist.
the surface that covers the top of a building or vehicle
The house has a flat/tiled roof.
He climbed onto the roof.
Put the luggage on the roof of the car.
It's an old Charentese house, with white walls, a red roof and a small garden, close to the seaside.
somewhere to live
He took me in when I didn't have a roof over my head.
As for the new homes for local people it seems to be that it will be of particular importance to homeless people, who will feel that they have a roof over their head without having to pay anything.
If the level of something, especially a price, goes through the roof, it increases very quickly.
The price of corn has gone through the roof recently.
Try extreme sports and feel your adrenaline levels going through the roof!
to become very angry and start shouting
If I'm late again he'll hit the roof.
Be careful, if you make too much noise he'll hit the roof.
a part of the inside of a building that is separated from other parts by walls, floor and ceiling
a hotel room
I'd like to book a double/single room.
We're in meeting room 1.
She's upstairs in her room.
She has a lot of flowers in her room.
space for things to fit into
Is there enough room for me in the car?
That sofa would take up too much room in the flat.
James took the books off the little table to make room for the television.
In the wardrobe there is not enough room to put all my stuff away.
If there is room for improvement, something can be made better.
His work isn't bad but there's still some room for improvement.
She is Polish, aged 29 and can speak English pretty well, but there is still room for improvement, that's why she wants to spend a year in England, looking after children in an English-speaking family.
someone who you share a room, apartment, etc. with
He was my roommate while we were at college.
I was a student and lived together in a flat with my roommate Claudia.
the part of a plant that grows under the ground and gets water and food from the soil
These plants have really deep roots.
I have gathered over three hundred species: flowers, roots, leaves and others.
where someone or something originally comes from
the roots of modern jazz
I think people should know where our European pop and rock music has its roots.
the cause of something, usually something bad
We must get to the root of this problem.
Money is said to be the root of all evil.
Unfortunately none of us has ever tried to find the root of this problem but the influences that it has on the environment are obvious.
very thick string made from twisted thread
We tied the boat to a post with a length of rope.
a coil of rope
A few moments later she took out a rope from her backpack.
to learn/know how to do a job or activity
I spent a month in the accounts department, learning the ropes.
Knowing the ropes, he did as usual, but one thing was left out.
a flower with a pleasant smell and thorns, that grows on a bush
a rose bush
She sent him a bunch of red roses.
He brought me to a posh restaurant and he gave me a bunch of roses.
Rosy faces are a healthy pink colour.
rosy cheeks
Not a lot taller than a lot of us, with beautiful blue eyes and rosy cheeks, she used to called us "Muffins".
very positive and happy
The future looks rosy.
In addition, I can see something in his eyes that says his life is not as rosy as it seems.
If vegetable or animal substances rot, they decay, and if something rots them, it makes them decay.
Sugar rots your teeth.
the smell of rotting fish
He told me of how he had come to see it every day, and seen how all the meat had rotted away and stuff.
Rotten vegetable or animal substances are decaying.
rotten eggs/fruit
I'll tell you something - my freezer still smells of rotten fish.
A rough surface is not smooth.
rough ground
It was a rough mountain road, covered in stones and huge holes.
I went with some people I knew from bike competitions, and I was impressed with how well they can ride a bike on a rough terrain, whereas I had to go carefully in some tracks.
approximate and not exact
Write a rough copy first and check the grammar.
Can you give me a rough idea of the numbers?
I lost my personal note-pad where I used to write all my job tasks, my arrangements and the records of my students. I have even written the rough copy of some personal letters there.
If the sea or weather is rough, there is a lot of strong wind and sometimes rain.
The boat sank in rough seas off the Swedish coast.
I went to the seaside but I was not allowed to bathe for they said that the sea was too rough.
difficult or unpleasant
She's having a rough time at work.
He did the mountain-route last year and he says that even he had a rough time.
dangerous or violent
a rough part of town
Hockey can be quite a rough game.
I like him as a football player because he plays fair, not rough.
approximately
There has been an increase of roughly 2.25 million.
Roughly speaking, it's 2.25 million.
We have roughly the same tastes.
These are very special cases and roughly speaking, confined to one thing.
forcefully or violently
He pushed us roughly out of the door.
My mother treated me roughly and unkindly by thrashing or smacking me at any time possible.
without taking a lot of care to make something perfect
Roughly chop the tomatoes and add to the onions.
She glanced at the mirror, roughly brushed her hair with her fingers and went outside for her car.
surrounding or being on all sides of something, or in a circular movement
We sat round the fire.
I put my arm round her.
She had a scarf round her neck.
The Moon goes round the Earth.
There is a big wood round this lake.
to or in different parts of a place
The landlord showed me round the house.
I had to go all round town to find a hotel that was open.
Well, she showed me round her hometown and we did some sight-seeing.
to someone's home
Wendy's coming round this afternoon.
I'll go round and see her later.
So would you come round and see me?
with a circular movement
This switch makes the wheels go round.
to the opposite direction
She looked round.
Turn the car round and let's go home.
I turned round and I saw that the one who was calling me was the singer!!
from one place or person to another
Could you pass these forms round, please?
moving in a circle without stopping
We drove round and round trying to find the hotel.
It's not fun to look at an animal who is bored and only walks round and round.
in the shape of a circle or ball
a round hole/stone/table/window
a round face
It is on the round table in your room.
the first/second/third/final, etc. stage in a competition
He was beaten in the first round.
At five o'clock in the afternoon, the second round of the games will begin.
when people clap
The crowd gave him a huge round of applause.
It was unbelievable, there was a round of applause and some people couldn't help crying.
drinks that you buy for a group of people
It's your turn to buy the next round.
Rob (her husband) was so happy and in such a splendid mood that he decided to pay for a round of beer.
a group of events that is part of a series
a round of interviews
a new round of talks between the two countries
My life was an endless round of parties, and social events.
a circular place where roads meet and where cars drive around until they arrive at the road that they want to turn into
At the roundabout, take the second turning.
Rosewood Avenue is off the first roundabout by Tesco.
the roads or paths you follow to get from one place to another place
an escape route
I'm just planning my route.
What's the best route to the station?
Crowds gathered all along the route to watch the race.
Each cycle route is shown in a different colour, so we didn't lose our way.
a method of achieving something
A university education is seen by many as the best route to a good job.
This means that only by presenting them with a great variety of opportunities can we be certain that our children will be shaped correctly. Thus, ... it seems to be the only legitimate and most advantagous route to follow.
the things you regularly do and how and when you do them
a daily routine
He longed to escape the routine of an office job.
There's no set/fixed routine at work - every day is different.
Usually we speak about our daily routine, and our plans for the future.
done regularly and very boring
a routine check/task
His job is very routine.
Nevertheless, when a job becomes routine (and it usually always does), people seem to reminisce about their student years with a sense of disappointment.
a straight line of people or things
a row of chairs/houses
My students sit at desks in rows for most of the time.
Two rows of servants stood beside the path which was in front of him with a red carpet on it.
a line of seats
to sit on the back/front row
Isn't that Sophie sitting in the row behind us?
It is great in my class, there are so many people and they are all nice. I'm sitting in the first row next to Nicole.
one after another without a break
He's just won the tournament for the fifth year in a row.
Maradona was the captain of the team, and since he arrived, the team won three championships in a row.
to move a boat or move someone in a boat through the water using oars
We rowed to the other side of the lake.
In the end, they had to row all the way back to the beach and it was very late when they got home.
a loud, angry argument
My parents often have rows.
a blazing row
The sun was shining, the birds were singing and all the people were happy, but I was very angry because I had had a row with my husband.
relating to a queen or king and their family
the royal family
a royal visit
Chris, Anne and I wanted to visit the royal palace.
to press your hand or a cloth on a surface and move it backwards and forwards
She rubbed her hands together to warm them.
He rubbed himself dry with a towel.
Rub the stain with a damp cloth.
Paul suddenly saw something. A kind of shadow. He rubbed his eyes but there was nothing.
to move a substance backwards and forwards over a surface so that it covers it and goes into it
I rubbed some suntan oil on her back.
Rub the butter into the flour.
to upset someone by talking to them about something which you know they want to forget
I know your exam results were better than mine - there's no need to rub it in.
Indeed, I wouldn't want to rub it in but you have reached seventy or eighty. I don't think you can fend for yourself.
a small object which is used to remove pencil marks from paper
Do you have a rubber in your pencil case?
We have to bring with us a pencil, many crayons and a rubber.
a strong material that bends easily, originally produced from the juice of a tropical tree, and used to make tyres, boots, etc.
shoes with rubber soles
Worst of all it seems to me is the way some zoos are regarded as places of entertainment like a circus, where the people are encouraged to laugh at animals when they 'perform their funny tricks' like eating bananas, swinging from rubber tyres and so on.
things that you throw away because you do not want them
Our rubbish gets collected on Thursdays.
Put the empty box in the rubbish bin.
I took some old furniture to the rubbish dump.
While I was walking in the rain along the dark and quiet alleys, I heard a weak cry that sounded like a baby coming from a corner with rubbish scattered everywhere.
something that is of bad quality
There's so much rubbish on TV.
I was taught to believe that recorded music was rubbish compared to live music.
something that is nonsense or wrong
Ignore him, he's talking rubbish.
For example, the advertisement where the worker eats only "Mars" and can work hard after it. It's rubbish.
behaving in a way which is not polite and upsets other people
a rude comment/remark
He complained that a member of staff had been rude to him.
It would be rude to leave without saying goodbye.
I thought he was such a rude man.
Rude words or jokes relate to sex or going to the toilet.
He taught his little sister a lot of rude words.
She just wanted to shout rude words when finally she recognised her father... standing in front of her.
in a rude way
He rudely pushed past us.
When I made an attempt to speak to the conductor, I was rudely told off and told to stay seated for the rest of the journey.
the quality of being rude
I was shocked by her rudeness.
Many complaints were made about the rudeness of the reception staff.
a soft piece of material used to cover the floor
My dog loves lying on the rug in front of the fire.
There is a green rug in the middle of the floor.
a sport played by two teams with an oval ball and H-shaped goals
He's a keen rugby fan.
I want to play some rugby and swim in the sea.
the broken parts that are left from an old building after it has been destroyed
Thousands of tourists wander around these ancient ruins every year.
After that I'm going to travel to Luxor and see the ruins.
to be in a very bad state
The war left one million people dead and the country in ruins.
When my grandparents were young, Germany lay in ruins.
when someone loses everything such as all their money or their job
The collapse of the bank has left many people in financial ruin.
He started his first business some time ago which led to financial ruin.
to spoil or destroy something completely
They were late and the dinner was ruined.
Her injury ruined her chances of winning the race.
Huge modern hotels have ruined this once unspoilt coastline.
But she didn't keep her promise and she ruined my life.
an official instruction about what you must or must not do
to break the rules
to obey/follow the rules
You can't smoke at school, it's against the rules.
There're plenty of rules in my high school.
a principle of a system, such as a language or science
the rules of grammar
We did a little exam about tenses and grammar rules.
the usual way something is
an exception to the rule
I visit my parents on Sunday, as a rule.
As a rule, children who ride bikes change their bikes for cars when they are older and are prepared a little for how to behave on the road.
a way of calculating something, which is not exact but which will help you to be correct enough
As a rule of thumb, you need one egg for every 125g flour.
As a rule of thumb, one third of the people working in central Copenhagen go by car, one third by public transport, and one third by bike.
to allow someone to do something which is not usually allowed
We don't usually let students take books home, but I'll bend the rules on this occasion.
when someone is in control of a country
military rule
There have been reports of immense human suffering under his rule.
A XXth century modernist, not only should he be paid honour for his artistry but also for his never ceasing battle against Franco's rule.
to be in control of somewhere, usually a country
They were ruled for many years by a dictator.
In the late 60s when Greece was ruled by a military government, many young students fled abroad to escape its cruelty.
to influence someone's thoughts or actions
His life is ruled by the demands of his job.
Our Earth has grown overcrowded and every inch of our life is ruled by computers.
to be in control of somewhere, usually a country
They were ruled for many years by a dictator.
the ruling party
Cleopatra was the seventh queen of Egypt and ruled until 63 B.C. when she died.
a flat, straight stick which is used to measure things
Can I borrow your ruler?
We have to bring with us a pencil and a ruler for the first lesson.
the leader of a country
He was the ruler of the country for over 20 years.
Versailles in France and the time of Louis XIV as the ruler would be my place and time I would choose to visit.
an official legal decision, usually made by a judge
This ruling has delighted road safety campaigners.
As you certainly will remember, the ruling of the High Court obliges you to keep the level of noise below a certain level depending on the distance of the airport.
a fact that a lot of people are talking about although they do not know if it is true
Rumours are going round the school about Mr Mason and his assistant.
Someone has been spreading rumours about me.
I heard a rumour that you were leaving.
However, the press shouldn't create rumours and hunt those people like animals.
to move on your feet at a faster speed than walking
He can run very fast.
He ran away when I tried to pick him up.
We had to run to catch up with him.
I run about three miles every morning.
Children can run everywhere.
to organize or control something
She ran her own restaurant for five years.
The social group is run by the residents themselves.
My aunt is always working. She runs her own business.
If trains or buses are running, they are available to travel on.
Trains are still running, despite the snow.
A bus runs three times a day into town.
Buses are running an hour late, because of an earlier accident.
There is an easy way to get to the college: a service bus runs every 15 minutes, and the journey takes only 20 minutes.
If liquid runs somewhere, it flows.
Tears ran down her face.
Have you got a tissue? My nose is running.
The warm urine ran through my underwear, down my legs and white socks, into my shoes and floated out on the floor.
If you run a computer program, you use it on your computer.
Did you run a virus check this morning?
At this point the computer is unable to run any program.
If a piece of equipment is running, it is switched on and working, and if you run it, you switch it on and make it work.
The engine is running more smoothly now.
We could start a campaign where people are reminded not to leave their car, lorry or bus engines running for more than one minute if stationary.
to publish something in a newspaper or magazine
All the papers are running this story on the front page.
If we run a story on "HIV Symptoms" we could have a very successful first issue.
to move something along, over, or through something else
She ran her fingers through her hair.
The manly figure that had tried to stop her now kneeled before her body running his finger through her soft blond hair.
to be at a particular level
Inflation is now running at 5.8%.
According to the official data, unemployment is running at so high a level that it is even possible that the unemployed will rebel against the government.
If something makes your blood run cold, it frightens you very much.
I heard a tapping on the window which made my blood run cold.
This thought scared me and made my blood run cold.
If someone, especially a child, runs wild, they behave as they want to and no one controls them.
Their nine-year-old son is left to run wild.
My parents decided to move to a small village when I was just a kid. Shortly after we settled in, my parents decided that I was running wild and that it was time for me to receive some sort of education.
If someone's imagination runs wild, they are not able to control their thoughts.
It was getting dark and my imagination was starting to run wild.
Her imagination started to run wild and she set about thinking about the dark corridors, the secret passages and the obscure dungeons that the castle might hide.
to behave in a noisy, violent, or wild way without being controlled
They allow their kids to run riot.
to do something although something bad might happen because of it
I think I'll run the risk of hurting her feelings, and tell her the truth.
They constantly run the risk of losing their physical abilities.
when you move on your feet at a speed faster than walking, especially for exercise
We go for/do a three-mile run every evening after work.
If you set off at a run, you'll be exhausted later.
Walking is recognized as good exercise, or going for a run.
in cricket or baseball, a single point
to score a run
I liked the competition because both the teams played well and they scored good runs.
at a time that is far away in the future
It seems a lot of effort but I'm sure it's the best solution in the long run.
It costs a lot of money, but in the long run, it is worth it.
to suddenly run fast in order to escape from somewhere
When he saw the open door, he made a run for it.
Anna and Tom decided to make a run for it.
when something happens several times without something different happening during that period
a run of 10 games without a win
a run of good/bad luck
Strange though it may seem, he achieved success in every possible field not owing to a run of good luck, but thanks to his outstanding qualities.
someone who runs, especially in competitions
a long-distance runner
The former is the fastest man in the world, the latter is a very famous long-distance runner.
the sport of moving on your feet at a speed faster than walking
I go running three times a week.
running shoes
My hobbies are reading and running.
the activity of controlling or looking after something
He has recently handed over the day-to-day running of the museum to his daughter.
running costs
Electricity is an essential requirement now in the day-to-day running of businesses and life in general compared to the early nineteenth century.
If something happens for the second/third, etc. day/week, etc. running, it happens on that number of regular occasions without changing.
He's won the Championship for the fifth year running.
Fourteen days running of laziness and sleep without tight-scheduled meetings or rush-hour traffic jams lurking.
If a place has running water, it has a working water system.
They bought an old house with no electricity or running water.
It is hilarious to think that at the same time people in the north of Europe were still living a primitive and uncivilized life not even able to invent an axe, the Romans managed to install running water in their huge houses.
a large road that aircraft use to land on or to start flying from
The runway was covered with snow.
The problem hit the headlines when a small Soviet aircraft missed the runway and touched down on a road exploding in two pieces and damaging many cars and the people sitting inside.
relating to the countryside and not to towns
The area is still very rural and undeveloped.
I live in a rural area far from any village, town, or city.
to hurry or move quickly somewhere, or to make someone or something hurry or move quickly somewhere
We had to rush to catch the bus.
We rushed out into the street to see what all the noise was.
The UN has rushed medical supplies to the disaster area.
I rushed to Tom's house, and when I reached it, he received me with a weird smile on his face.
to do something quickly and enthusiastically
His friends rushed to congratulate him after the ceremony.
I was very happy and rushed to talk to them.
to make someone do something more quickly than they want to do it
I refuse to be rushed into making a decision.
Don't try to rush him - he needs time to think about it.
It has always been very busy but these days people seem to have a harder time facing the fact that not everything can be rushed.
when you have to hurry or move somewhere quickly
Slow down! What's the rush?
Why is it always such a rush to get ready in the mornings?
Everyone seemed to be in a rush.
He was in a rush to get home.
That's because we are always stressed and always in a rush.
a lot of things happening or a lot of people trying to do something
There was amad rush to get tickets for the concert.
She is that sort of a person who prefers to have more time on her hands so as to avoid the last-minute rush.
when something suddenly moves somewhere quickly
a rush of air
She felt a sudden rush of blood to her face.
To conclude, I believe that sports activities, apart from providing us with a sense of freedom and a rush of adrenaline, make us accomplished human beings.
the time when a lot of people are travelling to or from work and so roads and trains are very busy
the morning/evening rush hour
I always try to travel outside the rush hours.
During rush hours, you often see cars lined up with just one person inside, each car polluting the environment.
Rusty metal has rust on its surface.
a rusty car/nail
It was very rusty but I repainted it and now it looks like a new bike.
If a skill you had is now rusty, it is no longer good because you have forgotten it.
My French is a bit rusty.
However, I am rather "rusty" at using the morse code as well as using the codes of communication.
in a bad situation where you do the same things all the time, or where it is impossible to make progress
He seems to be stuck in a rut at the moment.
Financial security, all the, let me call them, background benefits are important, but if you do not love what you do, soon you will become bitter, stuck in a rut or worse - you will suffer from depression.
not caring if you hurt or upset other people when you try to get what you want
ruthless ambition
a ruthless dictator
As a result, the competition has become ruthless and severe.
to tell someone to leave their job, usually because they have done something wrong
They sacked her for being late.
He got sacked from his last job.
What's more, I was sacked from my workplace.
When someone gets the sack or is given the sack, they are told to leave their job.
He got the sack from his last job.
My sister was working in a very good company in Rio and she got the sack, so she decided to go to Spain.
a large bag made of paper, plastic, or cloth and used to carry or store things
sacks of coal
The worst thing was with rubbish which wasn't collected. People in estates, special groups, used big bags and sacks to gather it.
relating to a religion or considered to be holy
sacred music
a sacred object
It is a volcanic island which has been enshrined as a sacred place.
too important to be changed or destroyed
I don't work at weekends - my private time is sacred.
The old sweatshop has no appeal, and even many well-paid extra hours are rejected in order to preserve one's most sacred thing: free time.
something valuable that you give up in order to achieve something or help someone, or the act of giving it up
We had to make sacrifices in order to pay for our children's education.
They cared for their disabled son for 27 years, at great personal sacrifice.
It's a small sacrifice but I think that it will serve him well in the long run.
to give up something that is valuable to you in order to achieve something or help someone
Many women sacrifice interesting careers for their family.
We are very proud of our low costs ..., a pleasing fact primarily based upon a large number of volunteers who sacrifice their spare time in our organisation.
unhappy or making you feel unhappy
I've just received some very sad news.
She gave a rather sad smile.
It's sad (that) the trip had to be cancelled.
I'm so sad (that) you can't come.
It's sad to see so many failures this year.
I was sad to hear that they'd split up.
He is very sad because he had a car accident and he is paralysed.
to make someone feel sad or disappointed
We were saddened by his death.
They have a right to be consulted about their future: nothing saddens me more than a father sending his son (who dreams about becoming a painter) to the School of Law because that is 'the best for him' or 'that's what I always wanted to do' or, the worst of all, 'you will study such-and-such because I say so!'
a leather seat that you put on a horse so that you can ride it
Can you help me fasten the saddle?
I didn't like to use a saddle, I just put a sheep skin on the back of my horse and jumped on it.
to put a saddle on a horse
We saddled our horses and rode off.
I had to climb to my father's shoulders to see the horses, and then realized that they hadn't been saddled.
in an unhappy way
"He's gone away for six months," she said sadly.
Alice quickly got in the car and waved sadly at her parents while Natalie drove off.
in a way that is not satisfactory
Sadly, the treatment doesn't work for all patients.
If you think she'll let you do that, you're sadly mistaken.
Some forms of entertainment which were popular decades ago have, sadly, disappeared.
being sad
Her sadness at her grandfather's death was obvious.
What can be more real that when your lover is gone or taken away, your own soul is also alone, bitter and dark and there is nothing else than feelings of revenge, anger, frustration and sadness?
not in danger or likely to be harmed
In some cities you don't feel safe going out alone at night.
I like this place because I feel safe there.
not dangerous or likely to cause harm
a safe driver
That ladder doesn't look safe.
She wished us a safe journey.
Is this medicine safe for children?
It's safe to cross the road now.
Have a safe journey, and I will meet you at the Airport.
not harmed or damaged
She said that all the hostages were safe.
Suddenly I felt something strange near me, I turned back quickly and two men were there. They showed me their weapons. Then, I woke up safe in my bed.
not involving much risk
Salmon is a safe option - most people like it.
He told us that these shares were a safe investment.
On the other hand, I could have chosen to stay in my town and start at the University. It would be the recommended and most appropriate choice. I would get my degree and start a normal and safe career.
If it is safe to say something, you are sure it is correct.
I think it's safe to say that he'll be the next president.
It is probably safe to say that there are no good books about engineering written in Portuguese so my teachers always use books written in English.
a place where something will not be lost or stolen
It's very valuable so put it somewhere safe.
Don't show off your money but keep it in a safe place.
being cared for or dealt with by someone skilled
The project is in safe hands - Jan has lots of experience.
He has also been trained as a lifeguard so the residents of your hotel would probably be in safe hands.
completely safe and without injury or damage
After three days lost in the mountains, all the climbers arrived home safe and sound.
So, by the time you read this letter I'll probably be safe and sound in Liverpool.
something that you are certain will happen
Wheeler is a safe bet for a place on the team.
Automatically, we think that black is a safe bet for any occasion.
in a safe way
We all arrived safely.
Drive safely!
Are the children safely fastened into their car seats?
I think we can safely say they won't find us now.
My friend has come back safely and now a new life starts for him.
the state of being safe, or a place or situation where someone or something is safe
food/road safety
The hostages were led to safety.
For your (comfort and) safety, we recommend you keep your seat belt loosely fastened during the flight.
Journalists may enter the danger zone but unfortunately we cannot guarantee their safety.
As the gunman opened fire, they all ran/dived for safety behind trees.
Police are concerned for the safety of the five-year-old.
He was led to a place of safety.
In my opinion, using a centre for shopping is a better idea because we are safer there and nowadays safety is important for many reasons.
how safe something is
Safety at the factory has been improved.
Safety regulations: Ten years ago, regulations on working did not exist.
to control a boat that has no engine and is pushed by the wind
He sailed the dinghy up the river.
She sailed around the world single-handed in her yacht.
First of all, we are going to the beach where some sailors are going to teach us how to sail.
to travel somewhere on a boat or a ship
We sailed to New York.
You know, I've got a boat and if you want, we will be able to spend five days on it. We will sail to the Channel Islands (Jersey, Guernsey, Sark...) .
When a boat or a ship sails, it travels on the water.
The ship was sailing to China.
The boat sailed along/down the coast.
As the battleship sailed by/past, everyone on deck waved.
I started the film and we could all see a ship sailing towards the camera.
a large piece of material that is fixed to a pole on a boat to catch the wind and make the boat move
Our boat has a yellow sail.
Surrounded by swooping birds and the distant moos of the cows, the billowing sails would send us off with the wind.
to start a journey by boat or ship
We set sail for home the next day.
What made things turn from grey to black was that soon after my return I was invited to set sail to the Spanish islands.
a sport using boats with sails
a sailing boat
We're going sailing next weekend.
She wants to show me how to do canoeing and sailing.
someone who sails ships or boats as their job or as a sport
Over 100 sailors took part in the race.
He is a sailor.
a dead person who has been officially respected by the Christian church for living their life in a holy way
Catherine of Siena was made a saint in 1461.
They were originally a mixture of a pagan and a religious feast related to the worshipping of two saints: St Antony in Lisbon and St. John in Porto.
in order to help or bring advantage to someone or something
Please do it, for David's sake.
Their parents only stayed together for the sake of the children.
I hope for both our sakes that you're right!
You should act on his advice, for your own sake.
For the sake of convenience, they combined the two departments.
For safety's sake, you shouldn't swim alone.
You should let your hair down once in a while, for your own sake, and for the sake of your family.
a cold mixture of vegetables that usually have not been cooked, sometimes eaten with meat, cheese, etc.
a salad bowl
Serve the risotto with a mixed salad.
Toss the salad with oil and vinegar.
What about a vegetable salad, ... fried potatoes and chicken with beer?
a fixed amount of money that you receive from your employer, usually every month
an annual salary of £20 000
His net monthly salary is £1500.
She's on quite a good/decent salary in her present job.
He took a drop in salary when he changed jobs.
a 10% salary increase
I was on the beach when my mobile phone rang. It was my boss who said "I'm in Australia, and I can't read my e-mail, the server at work crashed. Please repair it today and I will double your salary."
available to buy
Is this painting for sale?
Our neighbours put their house up for sale last week.
For sale: "Olympus" camera + bag.
a time when a shop sells goods at a lower price than usual
I bought this dress in the sale.
I picked up a few bargains in the sales.
It had cost £350, but I bought it in the sale and I paid £300!
available to buy in a shop, on the Internet, etc.
The video and book are now on sale.
I went window shopping with my friends yesterday and I saw this beautiful skirt on sale.
the act of selling something, or the time when something is sold
The sale of alcohol is now banned.
The building company gets 10% commission on each house sale.
I haven't made a sale all morning.
We had arranged to meet him at the Ritz restaurant in order to deal with the sale of some products.
the number of items sold
Our sales have doubled this year.
You should know that they are getting a marked increase in sales.
someone whose job is selling things
I asked the salesman for advice.
Sad to say, I have not applied for it again but I did apply for another job as a salesman.
someone whose job is selling things in a shop
She's a salesperson at a bookshop.
In my previous job, I was a salesperson, where I used to deal with many, many people and I can guarantee my skill to manage with people is extraordinarily good and I am prepared to work under pressure.
someone whose job is selling things
The saleswoman showed me the car.
Many years ago, when I was seventeen, I was working as a saleswoman for a printer.
a large, silver fish, or the pink meat of this fish
fresh/smoked/tinned salmon
salmon fishing
My favourite restaurant is Pampa Grill. My favourite food there is the salmon, it's delicious.
a place where women have their hair cut and put in a style
My hairdresser opened her own salon.
I had an appointment at my hairdresser's and late as usual I parked outside the salon on a narrow dead-end-street where it was forbidden to park.
a white substance used to add flavour to food
salt and pepper
Pass the salt, please.
But before, you put on the top of the chicken salt and pepper or a piece of bacon.
tasting of or containing salt
Is the soup too salty?
On the other hand, the Western one gave good service but the food was oily and salty.
exactly alike
My twin sister and I have got the same nose.
She was wearing exactly the same dress as I was.
Hilary's the same age as me.
She brought up her children in just the same way her mother did.
She is the same age as me.
not another different person, thing or situation
My brother and I sleep in the same room.
Rachel's still going out with the same boyfriend.
(very) same day, he heard he'd passed his exam.
I would do the same thing again if I had the chance.
They eat at the same restaurant every week.
Shall we meet up at the same time tomorrow?
It's not the same subject every day.
If two things happen or are true at the same time, they happen or are true together.
We arrived at the same time.
The kind of clothes I most like are casual but fashionable at the same time.
something or someone you have seen or heard many times before
Every day I see the same old faces.
Politicians repeat the same old arguments time and time again.
I think that it is the same old story with media all over the world that they tend to present the news in an exaggerated manner.
similarly
In the same way, there are many citizens who feel unprotected by the police.
In the same way, grandmothers may be shocked when seeing their little children wearing extravagant clothes or really short skirts.
to be in the same unpleasant situation as other people
She complains that she doesn't have enough money, but we're all in the same boat.
Unemployment and its consequences is still a major problem. Now we are in the same boat.
exactly like
People say I look just the same as my sister.
John thinks the same as I do - it's just too expensive.
She always had a quick temper, and her mother was the same.
When I go to school I have to wear uniform, which I don't it like because we all look the same.
not another different thing or situation
I'm hopeless at physics, and it's the same with chemistry - I get it all wrong.
I'd do the same if I was in your situation.
I will write to you again soon and I hope you will do the same.
not changed
After all these years you look exactly the same - you haven't changed a bit.
Charles is just the same as always.
Prices are the same as in the golden days, but the atmosphere is friendlier and the linen-draped white tables look inviting.
despite what has just been said
He doesn't earn much. All the same, he ought to pay for some of his own drinks.
I'm afraid 300 parking spaces will not suffice. All the same, I would recommend parking in the city centre, for commercial reasons.
in the same way
We treat all our children the same.
I need some time to myself, the same as anybody else.
a small number of people from a larger group that is being tested or considered
a random sample of voters
a nationally representative sample of 200 schools
This report is based on a sample of over 50 students.
a small amount of something that shows you what it is like
a free sample of chocolate
She brought in some samples of her work.
samples of carpet/curtain material
a small amount of a substance that a doctor or scientist collects in order to examine it
a blood/urine sample
He had taken blood samples, listened to her lungs and heart but nothing seemed to be wrong with her apart from the fact that she couldn't move her legs.
to experience a place or an activity, often for the first time
an opportunity to sample the local night life
Having said that, the recent recession in Japan has caused a drop in prices and I consider this is the best time to set up a new program to send students to Japan to allow them to sample the culture and brush up their language ability.
a punishment for not obeying a rule or a law
economic/trade sanctions against a country
The war effort and the US sanctions have led the economy to distress too.
a substance that is found on beaches and in deserts, which is made from very small grains of rock
a grain of sand
The children played all day in/on the sand.
coarse/fine sand
We got to a beautiful beach. The sand looked like gold.
a light shoe with straps that you wear in warm weather
a pair of sandals
In summer, I wear skirts and sandals.
two slices of bread with meat, cheese, etc. between them
a tuna/cheese sandwich
sandwich fillings
You can make a quick snack, for example a sandwich.
covered with or containing sand
a sandy beach
We have no mountains in Lithuania, but we have sandy beaches at the seaside.
not suffering from mental illness
Psychiatrists pronounced her sane.
On these occasions I would yell at him for no reason at all and my family started wondering whether I was completely sane.
using sarcasm
a sarcastic comment/remark
Are you being sarcastic?
I want to learn how to be more assertive, find emotional independence, fulfil my dreams, be more tolerant, less sarcastic and, most importantly be given the precious gift of patience.
a piece of equipment that is sent into space around the Earth to receive and send signals or to collect information
The World Cup was transmitted around the world by satellite.
satellite television/TV
a TV/weather satellite
To balance this, technology has developed a lot in the last decades and now people can have wild animals inside their homes, even though they may be locked up on a CD-Rom or coming in a wave format through the satellite dish.
a pleasant feeling which you get when you receive something you wanted, or when you have done something you wanted to do
She looked at the finished painting with satisfaction.
She got/obtained great satisfaction from/out of helping other people.
For me, job satisfaction is more important than the money.
She had the satisfaction of knowing that she'd done everything she could.
Whatever it is, it must give us satisfaction.
as well as someone wants
He won't get paid until he completes the job to my satisfaction.
Should this matter not be solved to my satisfaction, I will have no choice but to place it in the hands of my solicitor.
in a satisfactory way
I'm sure these problems can be satisfactorily resolved.
The main problem is finding the most accurate meaning of some words, phrasal verbs, idioms etc. Dictionaries can do the job satisfactorily but the problem inside is left unsolved.
good enough
We hope very much to find a satisfactory solution to the problem.
The teachers seem to think his work is satisfactory.
The service is satisfactory.
pleased because you have got what you wanted, or because something has happened in the way that you wanted
Some people are never satisfied!
a satisfied smile
Are you satisfied with the new arrangement?
I must say that I'm very satisfied with the club.
If you are satisfied that something is true, you believe it.
The judge was satisfied that she was telling the truth.
I suppose that is only because they are satisfied that other nations than the British can strike.
to please someone by giving them what they want or need
They have 31 flavours of ice-cream - enough to satisfy everyone!
Come on, satisfy my curiosity, what happened last night?
But how can anyone satisfy a wealthy woman like her without giving her an expensive present?
to have or provide something that is needed or wanted
She satisfies all the requirements for the job.
In general, the conference satisfied my needs.
the day of the week after Friday and before Sunday
He's leaving on Saturday.
Most of our swim meets are held on Saturdays.
Joel was born on a Saturday.
last/next Saturday
Saturday morning/afternoon/evening
Every Saturday I wake up very happy and early because this is the day I go to the stadium to support my football team "ARSENAL".
a thick hot or cold liquid eaten with food to add flavour
a savoury/sweet sauce
tomato sauce
It will be rice and chicken with a sweet and sour sauce, so if you want you can bring some wine.
a deep, metal pan, usually with a long handle and a lid, that is used to cook food in
Put the potatoes in a saucepan of boiling water.
The waiters are very polite and the food is so good, specially the fish. You can can see the chef with his saucepan, it's very funny!
a small plate that you put under a cup
a cup and saucer
She gave the cat a saucer of milk.
a mixture of meat and spices pressed into a long tube
fried/grilled sausages
sliced garlic sausage
They usually prepare traditional Polish food like cabbage with mushrooms and sausages.
to keep money so that you can buy something with it in the future
We've saved almost £900 for our wedding.
Michael's saving up for a new computer.
I had to save a lot of money.
to keep something to use in the future
I've saved some food for you.
She saved her black dress for special occasions.
I save all my old letters in case I want to read them again.
If you don't mind, please save it for me until I come your house at 8.30 p.m.
to make sure that a computer keeps information that you have put on it
Make sure you save your files regularly.
I saved the photos in the family folder.
I need my laptop because I saved my school project on it.
to prevent time, money or effort being wasted or spent
You'll save time if you take the car.
Thanks for your help - it saved me a lot of work.
More and more people choose to travel by car, because it saves a lot of time compared to travelling by public transport.
to stop someone or something from being killed, injured or destroyed
Wearing seat belts has saved many lives.
He fell in the river but his friend saved him from drowning.
He had to borrow money to save his business.
He was desperately trying to save their failing marriage.
We all need to do our bit to save the planet.
We watched a movie called "Men in Black II" and it was about two guys that save the world from alien attacks.
to prevent a player from scoring a goal
He saved two goals in the last minute of the game.
to help someone avoid having to do something
We'll eat in a restaurant - it'll save you having to cook.
Building a new supermarket along with a multi-storey car park will save city dwellers from having to travel to the suburbs to buy what they need.
when you use or spend less money than you would usually have to
a saving of £20.
I know that it sounds as if the company had to spend a lot of money on retraining, but in the long term this will be a saving.
the money which you keep in an account in a bank or similar financial organization
He spent all his savings on an expensive car.
I also spent all my savings on executive-looking clothes.
to speak words
"I'd like to go home," she said.
How do you say this word?
She said goodbye to all her friends and left.
"How do you say 'goodbye' in French?"
I couldn't hear what they were saying.
Do you know what she said to him?
I've got something to say to you.
When I'm speaking in class, I'm very nervous and I can't say anything.
to tell someone about a fact, thought, or opinion
Did she say where she was going?
Officials refused to say what had happened.
What did they say about the house?
The doctors say (that) it will take him a few weeks to recover.
She didn't say whether she was coming or not.
"Who do you think will get the job?" "I'd rather not say."
What are you saying, exactly ?
Dear Mary, You asked me in your last letter about my bedroom. There aren't a lot of things to say about it, it is quite small but nice.
to give information in writing, numbers or signs
My watch says 3 o'clock.
Can you read what that notice says?
It says in the paper (that) they've found the man who did it.
It says on the bottle to take three tablets a day.
Well yesterday I was reading a new fashion magazine. It says that this summer the best clothes to wear are skirts with different colours!
to think or believe
People/They say (that) he's over 100.
"It's going to be a very hot summer." "So they say."
She is a firm leader, too firm, some might say.
People say that it never rains here.
used to show that many people believe something about something
Drinking plenty of water is said to be good for your skin.
On our way around the lake we would have the possibility of visiting a huge medieval castle which is said to be haunted.
If something goes without saying, it is obvious or generally accepted.
It goes without saying that smoking is harmful to your health.
It goes without saying that I will participate!
to think something but not speak
"I hope she likes me," he said to himself.
I remember saying to myself that "this little boy will survive" and after that I felt totally cool and calm and did what had to be done.
used to say that something seems like a good idea but it would be difficult to do
I want to ask her out, but it's easier said than done.
I know it's easier said than done but you have to try.
used to emphasize that you could have said something in a much stronger way
We were surprised, to say the least.
You get slightly bored, to say the least.
as you would expect
Needless to say, it rained the whole time we were there.
Needless to say, bribes are a frequent occurrence.
If it is safe to say something, you are sure it is correct.
I think it's safe to say that he'll be the next president.
It is probably safe to say that there are no good books about engineering written in Portuguese so my teachers always use books written in English.
used when you think that something is probably true or will probably happen
I dare say she'll change her mind.
Invent machines that are beneficial, not harmful, and I dare say life will only get better.
used to emphasize other problems you have not talked about
Most wild otters have disappeared from populated areas, to say nothing of wilderness areas.
Indeed would not it be an oversimplification to make one's judgement of the country's national character on the grounds of the amount and the quality of food people eat, to say nothing of the fact that this judgement is usually highly subjective?
a famous phrase that people use to give advice about life
Have you heard the saying "Don't count your chickens before they're hatched"?
But as the saying goes "Time flies when you are having fun".
the size or level of something
We don't yet know the scale of the problem.
Nuclear weapons cause destruction on a massive scale.
My parents used to entertain friends on a large/small scale.
He leads an evil trade: they carry out smuggling on a grand scale and use the inn as a store.
a set of numbers, amounts etc., used to measure or compare the level of something
the Centigrade/Fahrenheit scale
How would you rate his work on a scale of 1 to 5?
In brief, I think it would be a very good idea to create a new scale of salaries based on our needs, in which doctors would be higher than professional footballers.
how the size of things on a map, model, etc. relates to the same things in real life
a scale of 1:50 000
This map is large scale.
Is the bridge drawn to scale?
He was building a scale model of Concorde.
My friend gave me a 1/72 scale kit of "Supermarine Spitfire" for my birthday.
a piece of equipment for measuring weight
kitchen/bathroom scales
She weighs herself every week on the scales in the bathroom.
to use a piece of equipment that copies words or pictures from paper into a computer
to scan photos into a computer
Instead of drawing some of our customers documents we will just scan them.
to quickly read a piece of writing to understand the main meaning or to find a particular piece of information
I scanned the travel brochures looking for a cheap holiday.
So, I suggest that you buy a newspaper called "The Loot", sit down with a strong cup of coffee and scan it.
to look around an area quickly to try to find a person or thing
She scanned the crowd for a familiar face.
She looked at Lisa: her restless eyes were scanning the room while her thin fingers were tapping on the table.
a medical examination in which an image of the inside of the body is made using a special machine
a brain scan
John went with Sophie for a scan, John was hoping for a boy and Sophie for a girl.
something that shocks people because they think it is morally wrong
a financial/political scandal
Their affair caused/created a scandal in the office.
If there is the slightest suggestion/hint of scandal, the public will no longer trust us.
It's a scandal (that) children could be treated in this way.
Among them are the increasingly popular reality shows and all the daily news about gossip and scandal.
a permanent mark left on the body from a cut or other injury
an ugly scar
That burn will leave a nasty scar.
David is a tall man with black curly hair, black eyes, a big nose, a beard and a scar on his neck.
damage done to a person's mind by a very unpleasant event or situation
a psychological scar
A person who has been affluent since childhood might be said to not have the emotional scars of experiencing poverty during childhood and might be able to look at the world, and to the life as an adult, in a positive and constructive way.
to cause a scar
He was scarred for life by the accident.
rare or not available in large amounts
scarce resources
In the context of Singapore, where land is scarce and widening or building of more roads is just not feasible, we have no choice but to choose what is best for everyone.
only just
They had scarcely finished eating when the doorbell rang.
Scarcely had the ferry reached the shore than the heavy storm abated.
when there is not enough of something
a scarcity of food/affordable housing
With a scarcity of supplies and long training hours, wealthy children will then learn not to take things for granted.
to frighten a person or animal
Sudden, loud noises scare me.
You may think that Universal Video has gone mad: re-editing those old-fashioned horror movies that couldn't even scare your 6-year-old sister!
to make someone feel very frightened
You scared the life out of me, creeping up on me like that!
Such gory details scared the living daylights out of each parent in town and, soon after the second dead girl was found, one Mary Joe Chavez, supposedly another high-school genius, a state of emergency was proclaimed and a thorough investigation followed, proving to be in vain, despite all the effort put into it.
frightened or worried
He's scared of spiders.
He's scared to tell her what really happened.
I was scared (that) you might not be there.
I was scared stiff.
She had a scared look on her face.
When I came for the first time to my new English class I was a little bit scared.
a piece of cloth that you wear around your neck, head, or shoulders to keep warm or for decoration
a knitted/woollen/silk scarf
And my sister gave me a scarf too.
frightening
a scary movie/story
It was quite exciting but a little scary.
covering a wide area
His toys were scattered all over the floor.
There will be scattered showers today.
Nowadays, families are scattered in all the parts of world, for example, my husband's family is in Australia; so our wedding provided me a chance to spend time with his family and learn about their family traditions,
a description of a situation, or of a situation that may develop in the future
There are several possible scenarios.
a horrific/nightmare scenario such as a Third World War
This is a common scenario in developed countries, but third world countries have to deal with another type of homeless person.
a short part of a film, play, or book in which the events happen in one place
the funeral/wedding scene
Juliet dies in Act IV, Scene iii.
If you haven't seen any of these three "Star Wars" movies, I suggest you do see them tonight or tomorrow. They are great, with a lot of action scenes.
a view or picture of a place, event, or activity
Lowry painted street scenes.
scenes of everyday life
There were scenes of great joy as the hostages were re-united with their families.
I like especially the scene of the garden with snow in winter.
a place where an unpleasant event has happened
The police arrived to find a scene of horrifying destruction.
Evidence was found at the scene of the crime.
She managed to recreate the scene of the crime, saying that she had swallowed a fish bone.
all the things connected with a particular way of life or activity
She's well known on the jazz scene.
Both of them are about the gay and lesbian scene.
when people have a loud argument or show strong emotions in a public place
She made a scene when I told her she couldn't come with us.
She didn't cry, she didn't scream, she didn't make a scene.
If something happens behind the scenes, it happens secretly.
A lot of hard work has been going on behind the scenes.
Ms. Bolam knew a lot of things going on behind the scenes, which were not known to the patients.
the attractive, natural things that you see in the countryside
beautiful/breathtaking/spectacular scenery
They stopped at the top of the hill to admire the scenery.
If I were you, I'd go to the countryside because it's peaceful, quiet, and the scenery is wonderful.
having views of the attractive, natural things in the countryside
a scenic route
an area of great scenic beauty
France is an area of great scenic beauty, famous for its excellent cooking and wine.
a pleasant smell
the sweet scent of orange blossom
Flowers are in bloom and their scent triggers my romantic mood.
doubting that something is true or useful
Scientists remain sceptical about astrology.
She was sceptical of the new arrangement.
Such cases make us rather sceptical about authors of various theories concerning nutrition.
a plan that gives events or activities and the times that they will happen or be done
I have a very busy schedule today.
Will the work be completed on schedule?
Everything went according to schedule.
Firstly, the programme began exactly on schedule and the first group were KING CUP, not TORRENTS.
to arrange that an event or activity will happen at a particular time
The meeting has been scheduled for tomorrow afternoon.
The train is scheduled to arrive at 8.45, but it's running twenty minutes late.
My flight is scheduled to arrive at the airport at 10 o'clock in the morning.
planned to happen at a particular time or on a particular date
This programme will be broadcast half an hour later than the scheduled time.
The scheduled time for the arrival is 5.15 pm.
travelling at a regular time each day or week
a scheduled flight
Scheduled flights are more expensive than charter flights.
an official plan or system
a training/housing/play scheme
a pension/savings scheme
There's a new scheme in our town for recycling plastic bottles.
Class sizes will increase under the new scheme.
I reject any other possibilities like building a tunnel or a by-Pass, because compared to the Park and Ride scheme, they would be much too expensive.
someone who has studied a subject and knows a lot about it
a classics/history scholar
Dr Miles was a distinguished scholar of Russian history.
In the old days a scholar could spend years of his life in search of specific information, which now can be easily and inexpensively found at the click of a button!
an amount of money given to a person by an organization to pay for their education, usually at a college or university
She got a scholarship to the college.
In addition, is there any scholarship or financial support provided for students to apply for?
a place where children go to be educated
a primary/secondary school
Milton Road School
They're building a new school in the village.
She drives the kids to school every morning.
I was at school with Luke's brother.
Is Emily in school today or is she still ill?
Which school do you go to?
school meals/uniform
What do you want to do when you leave school ?
I don't like going to school by bus.
the time that you spend at school
before/after school
School starts at 9 a.m. and finishes at 3.30 p.m.
The school starts every day at 9:00 and finishes at 14:00.
a place where you can study a particular subject
She goes to an acting school on Saturdays.
I went to the dance school in our town.
a child who goes to school
The morning bus is usually full of schoolchildren.
To schoolchildren: I want to sell my two-year-old red bike.
education at school
Jack didn't receive much formal schooling.
Throughout my schooling I felt that school was a chore, a necessary evil, if you will.
the study and knowledge of the structure and behaviour of natural things in an organized way
a science course/lesson
a science graduate/teacher
pure/applied science
recent developments in science and technology
Space travel is one of the wonders of modern science.
You can study maths and science.
a particular type of science
computer science
Chemistry, physics, and biology are all sciences.
advances in medical science
In my class, there were 15 girls and 15 boys, who were studying computer science with me, so I knew everybody.
stories about life in the future or in other parts of the universe
She is a well-known science fiction writer.
Also, I like to watch fantasy and science fiction films.
relating to science, or using the organized methods of science
a scientific discovery/experiment/theory
scientific evidence/research
The project has attracted considerable criticism from the scientific community.
I like programmes about sport and scientific discoveries.
using scientific methods
scientifically proven
It is scientifically proven and well-known that the gas released by cars is toxic and quite dangerous to the environment - specially to the ozone layer.
someone who studies science or works in science
Scientists are working to create a vaccine for the disease.
NASA admitted yesterday they will send a group of highly trained scientists to Mars in the next two years.
a tool for cutting paper, hair, cloth, etc. that you hold in your hand and that has two blades that move against each other
a pair of scissors
Could you pass me the/those scissors, please?
We have to bring scissors, a pencil and a ruler.
a small motorcycle
I go to college on my scooter.
I want to sell my scooter.
how much a subject or situation relates to
Do we know the full scope of the problem yet?
The scope of this article exceeds the problem of the abuse of females.
the opportunity to do something
There is plenty of scope for improvement.
Some people argue that living longer gives them plenty of scope to do things they have always wanted to do but could not find the time for.
to get points in a game or test
He scored just before half-time to put Liverpool 2-1 ahead.
In American football, a touchdown scores six points.
She scored 18 out of 20 in the spelling test.
I almost scored an own goal.
the number of points someone gets in a game or test
a high/low score
What's the score?
At half time, the score stood at two all.
The final score was 3-0.
We took 4 or 5 exams that day and my friend, Erick and I studied all night to get the best scores.
to move or climb quickly but with difficulty, often using your hands
We scrambled up the hill.
Piggy and another few boys scramble up to the Castle Rock because Piggy wants to have his glasses back.
a small piece or amount of something
He wrote his phone number on a scrap of paper.
I've read every scrap of information I can find on the subject.
They couldn't find a scrap of evidence against him so he was released without charge.
A group of well-educated boys becomes a savage tribe, killing human beings without a scrap of remorse.
old cars and machines that are not now needed but have parts which can be used to make other things
scrap metal
The car was so badly damaged we could only sell it as scrap.
The last place I would visit was an isolated building, where some lean mongrel dogs were gnawing on rusty bones, while sniffing round the piles of scrap iron the left side of the building was thick with.
to not continue with a plan or idea
That project has now been scrapped.
We therefore propose you scrap your plans for Terminal 5 and instead try to reduce the number of incoming and outgoing flights, by diverting some planes to Luton or Stansted or Gatwick Airport.
to rub your skin with your nails, often to stop it itching
My skin was so itchy, I was scratching all night.
He was scratching (at) his mosquito bites.
Hannah scratched her head thoughtfully.
to make a slight cut or long, thin mark with a sharp object on a surface or on your skin
I scratched myself on the roses.
We scratched the paintwork trying to get the bed into Martha's room.
People have been scratching their names on this rock for years.
How can this ridiculous man accuse me of scratching his new car, thought Laura.
to rub a hard surface with a sharp object, often making a noise
The dog's scratching at the door - he wants to be let in.
Something scratched at the door.
a slight cut or a long, thin mark made with a sharp object
I've got all these scratches on my arm from the cat.
I should like to join one of those courses to become more 'professional' in how to repair a scratch on the side of the boat or a hole in the sail.
If you do something from scratch, you do it from the beginning.
We didn't have any furniture of our own so we had to start from scratch.
That means you don't have to start from scratch with your teacher.
to not be good enough
She told me my work wasn't up to scratch.
The department has put a procedure in place for staff who don't come up to scratch.
The size of the rooms and their state as well were not really up to scratch.
to make a loud, high noise with your voice, or to shout something in a loud, high voice because you are afraid, hurt, or angry
A spider landed on her pillow and she screamed.
Through the smoke, the rescuers could hear people screaming for help.
He was screaming in/with pain and begging for anaesthetic.
They screamed with laughter at her jokes.
Ken screamed (out) a warning telling people to get out of the way.
I've never found screaming at my staff to be very effective.
"I wish you were dead!" she screamed.
I opened the door and screamed - in front of me was a man standing with his hands covered in blood.
when someone screams
We heard screams coming from their apartment.
Last night, I was cooking and dad was watching tv when, suddenly I heard a scream.
a flat surface in a cinema or on a television, computer, mobile phone, etc., on which pictures or words are shown
Our television has a 19-inch screen.
Coming to your screens shortly, the amazing adventures of 'Robin Hood'.
Her ambition is to write for the screen.
Write the letter on the computer, then you can make changes easily on screen.
My favourite thing about it is that it has a huge screen and a lot of memory space.
the words written for and spoken in a film, play, broadcast or speech
Bruce Robinson wrote the script for 'The Killing Fields'.
I didn't get involved that much in writing a script because it was very hard and the director wrote most of it but the main idea of the background of the stage was mine, and I am very proud of it.
a set of letters used for writing a particular language
Arabic/Roman script
Which languages, other than Russian, Ukrainian and Byelorussian are written in Cyrillic script?
to move text or an image on a computer screen so that you can look at the part that you want
Scroll down to the bottom of the document.
dirty and untidy
scruffy jeans
I don't like to look scruffy.
For example, if it is particularly trendy for kids to wear scruffy bomber jackets and faded jeans there is no point in compelling them to dress our conventional way.
when you examine something carefully
Every aspect of her life came under public scrutiny.
Everything is placed under careful scrutiny.
a piece of art that is made from stone, wood, clay, etc., or the process of making objects like this
a wooden sculpture
modern sculpture
Tom teaches sculpture at the local art school.
The museum has several life-sized sculptures of people and animals.
But if you have time, you must visit some cities, like Rome or Florence, because there are many historical buildings and museums, with the most important sculptures and pictures by famous artists like Michelangelo or Raffaello.
a large area of salt water
the Mediterranean Sea
We went swimming in the sea.
The sea was calm/smooth/choppy/rough when we crossed the Channel.
The refugees were at sea for forty days before reaching land.
When we moved to the US, we sent our things by sea.
We spent a lovely week by the sea this year.
This place is in Lithuania. It's by the sea.
an animal with smooth fur that eats fish and lives near the sea
We could see seals swimming near the coast.
After leaving the Orkney Islands, we went by boat to the Shetland Islands, because we wanted to observe the grey seals with their pups that were on the northwest coast.
to close an entrance or container so that air or liquid cannot enter or leave it
She quickly sealed up the bottle.
In Egypt, the Pyramids are being sealed, because the perspiration of the tourists was ruining the paintings on the walls.
to close a letter or parcel by sticking the edges together
to seal an envelope
Jenny, my girlfriend, told me that she sealed the envelope with trembling fingers and then posted it.
to try to find someone or something
I've searched my bedroom but I can't find my watch.
He searched in his pockets for some change.
Police are still searching the woods for the missing girl.
He searched (in/through) his pockets for some change.
I've searched high and low , but I can't find my birth certificate.
The detectives searched the house from top to bottom, but they found no sign of the stolen goods.
He searched the whole bank but could not find it.
to use a computer to find information, especially on the Internet
I searched the Internet to find the best prices for flights to Barcelona.
Before you had to go to a library to finish your homework. Now, we just search on the internet.
If the police search a place or a person, they look to see if they are hiding anything illegal, such as drugs.
They were searched at the airport.
The men were searched for drugs and then released.
The undercover patrol searched our car rather roughly, looking for drugs.
to try to find an answer to a problem
Doctors are still searching for a cure.
The governments are therefore searching for solutions to compensate for the lack of financial resources.
when you try to find someone or something
After a long search, they eventually found the missing papers.
The police carried out/conducted/made a thorough search of the house, but they failed to find any drugs.
Joshua instantly thought it could be a bomb, so he organized a search all over the airport.
when you use a computer to find information, especially on the Internet
Why not do a search on Google for hotels in the area?
We're doing a computer search for all words beginning with 'high'.
But I think you shouldn't ask me, the best thing is a search on the internet, so you can see the photos and choose the option you like most.
when you try to find an answer to a problem
the search for happiness
Hemingway fought in the Spanish Civil war and in World War II, always in the search for answers to questions like "... what defines a man", or "... what happens to us in critical situations".
one of the four periods of the year: spring, summer, autumn or winter
But summer in Poland is as wonderful a season as winter!
a period of the year when a particular thing happens
How long does the dry/hurricane/wet season last?
The British football season begins in August and ends in May.
Once they had finished, Peter kissed his parents and started his journey on foot heading towards the stadium, to play the first game of the season.
If vegetables or fruit are in season, they are available and ready to eat.
Asparagus is in season at the moment.
They celebrate Halloween in October when pumpkins are in season, that's why in the decorations they include them very often; most of the people carve the pumpkins and put some lights inside.
If vegetables or fruit are out of season, they are not usually available at that time.
Strawberries are out of season at the moment.
As our place was famous for fresh sea food, I bought crabs and salmon although they were out of season and expensive.
If you go somewhere out of season, you go during a period of the year when few people are there.
I prefer to travel out of season.
Some towns that are completely dependent on tourism "die" out of season, while others are destroyed because of the excessive emigration of their people.
relating to or happening during a particular period in the year
seasonal vegetables
seasonal farm work
I am a student and during my summer holiday I prefer to do some seasonal work.
a piece of furniture that you sit on
Chairs, stools, sofas and benches are different types of seat.
Please have/take a seat.
A car usually has a driver's seat, a front/passenger seat and back/rear seats.
My ticket says 22D but there's already someone in that seat.
Is this seat free/taken?
Could I book/reserve two seats for tomorrow evening's performance?
I can sell seats to help with the concert.
a position in a parliament or other group that makes official decisions
a seat in parliament
a congressional seat
This is the story of a man who spent his life paying kickbacks to achieve power and eventually a seat in the parliament.
to be sitting down
The director was seated on his right.
A big pink elephant was seated near me.
If a building, room, or vehicle seats a particular number of people, that many people can sit in it.
The new concert hall seats 1500 people.
According to the owners, the Swan seats 100 guests and it is always advisable to make reservations.
If a place is secluded, it is quiet and not near people.
a secluded beach/garden
It is a place of rare beauty: secluded beaches, transparent and shimmering water are only a little part of the fascinating mystery of this gorgeous sea resort.
immediately after the first and before any others
Is Megan her first or second child?
This is the second time I've had flu this winter.
Jones took second place in the long jump.
I was second in the 100m.
I forgot to answer the second question.
another
She is often described as the second Marilyn Monroe.
You really ought to make the most of the opportunity, because you won't get a second chance.
Richard and Liz have a second home in France.
Pay attention to what she's saying because she won't explain it a second time.
I started my new English class last week. I had just finished my course and that was a second chance for me to pick up words so I gave it a go.
Second is used to show that only one thing is better, bigger, etc. than the thing mentioned.
St Petersburg is Russia's second (biggest/largest) city.
Iraq's oil reserves are second only to Saudi Arabia's.
The conditions that these prisoners are kept in are second to none.
Joao Pessoa is the second greenest city in the world.
after one other person or thing in order or importance
She didn't win the race, but she did come second.
On the other hand, New Zealand came second for senior government.
used to talk about the second in a series of things
Second, they failed to send written warning.
Second, the pedestrian area in the commercial centre has to grow, which would make this part of the town more pleasant for walking and would improve the opportunities for the shops.
one of the 60 parts a minute is divided into
There are sixty seconds in a minute.
These computers process millions of instructions per second.
The new system can trace a phone call in a fraction of a second.
I thought the British one, Peter, was going to win, but in the last 10 seconds, the Venezuelan won!
a very short period of time
"Come on, hurry up!" "I'll just/only be a second - I've got to lock the back door."
Have you got a second, Paul? I'd like to have a word with you.
It won't take a second .
Wait a couple of/a few seconds before trying again.
A few seconds later, a huge tree beside my house fell down and destroyed most of my house.
something that is sold cheaply because it is damaged or not in perfect condition
Some of those towels are seconds.
relating to the education of children approximately between the ages of 11 and 18 years old
secondary education
Marcus has just started at secondary school.
He is studying at secondary school.
a school for students aged between 11 and 18
My children are both at secondary school now.
They said they chose our school because we are one of the best secondary schools in Mexico City. Can you believe that!?
If something is second-hand, someone else owned or used it before you.
second-hand books/clothes
She buys a lot of clothes second-hand.
Personally, I only buy second-hand clothes because in second-hand shops, I really like discovering rare things and funny clothes from the 60s or 70s.
used for introducing the second reason, idea, etc.
I want two things: firstly, more money, and secondly, better working hours.
Secondly, I didn't know that you were working in an organization which is trying to save wildlife, but it sounds very exciting.
something that you tell no one about or only a few people
I'm having a party for him but it's a secret.
Can you keep a secret?
A close couple should have no secrets from each other.
Aren't you going to let me in on the secret?
She makes no secret of her dislike of her father.
That restaurant is one of the best-kept secrets in London.
I told her everything, she knew all my secrets but she never told me her secrets.
the best way of achieving something
That's the secret to making a good cocktail.
So what's the secret of your success?
The secret of this diet is that you have to be very optimistic.
without telling other people
For years they met in secret.
We met in secret when Mary was busy.
If something is secret, other people are not allowed to know about it.
The President escaped through a secret passage underneath the parliament building.
This is top secret information.
Do you think we'll manage to keep the surprise party secret from Mum until her birthday?
The secret admirer was the guy I liked!
someone who works in an office, typing letters, answering the telephone, and arranging meetings, etc.
My secretary will phone you to arrange a meeting.
The class is on Friday. You have to bring paper. For more information, ask the secretary.
the member of a committee who keeps records of meetings and deals with correspondence
I'm secretary of the tennis club this year.
From: Secretary of the Social Club To: Mr. Ford, Museum Director
without allowing other people to know
She said she didn't care about it, but I believe she was secretly delighted.
He was convicted on the evidence of secretly recorded telephone conversations.
Then in the evening we'll come to her house secretly. Of course, we should tell her mom everything about this plan.
one of the parts that something is divided into
a non-smoking section in a restaurant
the sports section of the newspaper
the tail section of an aircraft
The poorest sections of the community have much worse health.
It has two floors and is divided into sections, one that is a general restaurant and one for vegetarian people.
one part of a country's economy
In the financial sector, banks and insurance companies have both lost a lot of money.
The new government's policy is to transfer state industries from the public sector to the private sector.
Our software solutions are oriented towards the corporate sector where we are recognized as market leaders in this field.
safe from danger or harm or not likely to end
I don't feel that the house is secure.
Her promotion has made her position in the company more secure.
The museum has been promised £22 million by the government, so its future is relatively secure.
I think homes in the future will be more secure.
confident about yourself and the situation that you are in
I need to feel secure in a relationship.
First of all, you feel secure because you know that all the members of the family love you.
designed to make sure that only the person who knows it can get onto a computer system, website, etc.
You will be issued with a secure password.
If you decided to work with our superb Direct Net, you would get a secure password which you have to change at your first log in and an electronic card which produces every minute a new combination.
not likely to fail
a secure investment
I consider tourism a secure investment and one that is beneficial.
protection of a person, building, organization or country against threats such as crime or attacks by foreign countries
The station was closed for two hours because of a security alert.
Thirty demonstrators were killed in clashes with the security forces over the weekend.
The tighter security measures/precautions include video cameras in the city centre.
The students were deported because they posed a threat to national security.
The proposed national identity card system would help to tighten security against fraud.
The most dangerous criminals are held in maximum-security prisons.
It's about a man that is cloned by a computer and he has to escape from a maximum security jail, it's an action film.
when something is not likely to fail or be lost
If it's a choice between higher pay and job security, I'd prefer to keep my job.
I'm on a temporary contract and have little financial security.
They are the people who are already regarded as high class, but the reason for this prediction is that they have job security which has become a big issue in Korea after IMF, as well as a high salary.
confidence about yourself and the situation that you are in
the security of a long-term relationship
One is the security of having your mom around all the time.
spending a lot of time sitting down or not being active
a sedentary job/lifestyle
Improving the sports facilities means encouraging the residents to include physical exercise in their daily routine. Considering the sedentary lifestyle most people have adopted this would be of great importance.
to persuade someone to have sex with you, especially someone young
She was seduced by her boss.
One of the reasons why Olivia leaves her husband is that she has been seduced by an Indian prince.
to persuade someone to do something they would not normally do
I wouldn't have bought it but I was seduced by the low prices.
Sometimes I was seduced into buying very "useful" things by some cunning and attractive commercials on the television.
to notice people and things with your eyes
Turn the light on so I can see.
"I can see you!"
The teacher could see (that) the children had been fighting.
Jacqui saw the car drive up outside the police station.
From the window we could see the children playing in the yard.
See p. 23 for prices and flight details.
Every time I went to Hendon Park, I saw so many people there.
used for saying goodbye to someone
See you! Have a good journey!
This is my new number (07782472751). See you.
used for saying goodbye to someone you are going to meet again later/soon/tomorrow, etc.
I'll see you later!
See you soon.
to meet or visit someone
We're seeing friends at the weekend.
No one has seen much of Daryl since he got married.
They see a lot of each other at weekends.
My mother is seeing the doctor again next week.
I am very happy, that I can go to college every day and I can see my friends every day.
to watch a film, television programme, etc.
Did you see that documentary on Channel 4 last night?
I've just seen an amazing programme on television.
to understand something
I see (that) the social club is organising a theatre trip next month.
I see what you mean.
They didn't see the need/any need to notify their members of the changes in writing.
I was surprised that they couldn't see my point of view.
Do you see what I mean?
to find out information
I'll just see what time the train gets in.
Let's see whether there is an early performance on Saturday.
I have looked in my calendar to see what time would be the best for you to come here.
to imagine or think about something or someone in a particular way
She didn't see herself as brave.
It was easy to see the gift as a sort of bribe.
As I see it/things/the situation, we'll have to get extra help.
If I compare the members of my family with these qualities, then I have to say that I don't see them as my best friends.
used to say that you will make a decision about something later
"Dad, can I have a guitar?" "We'll see."
I'm sure I'd love to have four of them, but there's always the financial aspect. I'm just nineteen, I'll see...
to be the time or place where something happens
This decade has seen huge technological advances.
But the reason which has driven the strike is that the whole country has seen a cut in the subsidies given to unemployed people.
used when you are giving an explanation about something
I didn't know she was Welsh, you see.
You see, it was already late by that time.
Family matters had to stay in the family, you see.
to wait to discover what will happen
We'll wait and see what she says.
We will just have to wait and see.....
If you ask someone to see that something happens, you want them to make sure it happens.
Could you see that everyone gets a copy of this letter?
to believe that something will happen
I can't see us finishing on time.
She could see herself doing everyday jobs, studying with the kids, cooking dinner, putting them to bed but she didn't feel there; her thoughts were where they always were trying to find hope to endure the agony.
to realize you are wrong or have been behaving stupidly
We talked to her for an hour, but we couldn't make her see sense.
Ralph tries to make Jack see sense by showing him the conch which had been the symbol of leadership and also, friendship.
If two people see eye to eye, they agree with each other.
Our teachers don't always see eye to eye with the headmaster.
Although I agree with some of the statements given by the young people, I do not see eye to eye with all of their viewpoints.
to become very angry
When he insulted my friends, I just saw red.
I see red each time I realize that my son is looking forward to arriving home so as to flop down in front of his telly instead of reading a good book.
a small round or oval object produced by a plant that a new plant can grow from
Sow the seeds about 3 cm deep.
This chemical will stop the seeds from sprouting.
For several years, I have been very interested in flowers, fresh, dried and artificial and also different kinds of seeds.
the beginning of something
the seeds of hope/change
Should we use them unwisely, then we may well be sowing the seeds of our own (cultural) destruction.
to try to find or get something
"Are you actively seeking jobs?" she asked.
Hundreds of dissidents are seeking refuge/asylum in the US embassy.
Legal advice should be sought before you take any further action.
I am seeking employment and am interested in your offer.
to try to do something
They are seeking to change the rules.
to seek re-election
Jack never accepted Ralph as a chief and throughout the book he seeks to assume power.
to appear to be a particular thing or to have a particular quality
She seemed happy enough.
My new boss seems like a really nice person.
She seemed very friendly.
to appear to be a particular thing or to have a particular quality
It seemed like a good idea at the time.
The graphics were so good that the people seemed as if they were real.
There doesn't seem to be any real solution.
I seem to know more about him than anyone else.
I spent four cold days in the mountains and it seemed like winter despite being summer!
used for saying that something appears to exist or be true
It seems that the restaurants close early here.
It seems to me that she's in the wrong job.
It seems to me that you are wrong again.
appearing to be something without really being that thing
a seemingly harmless comment
You also claim that we did not reach our target figure - a statement seemingly based on pure assumption - which is completely incorrect.
to take hold of something quickly and firmly
I seized his arm and made him turn to look at me.
Besides, I think that the wild beasts have the right to live free and seize their prey in order to feed themselves.
to do something quickly in order to use an opportunity
You need to seize every opportunity.
So we seize the opportunity to go to the sea.
to take control of a place suddenly by using military force
Troops seized control in the early hours of the morning.
not often
We seldom go out in the evenings.
Alice was a quiet girl, she seldom talked, but he just couldn't stop talking.
to choose someone or something from a group
There was a choice of four prizes, and the winner could select one of them.
A mouse is a device which makes it easier to select different options from computer menus.
How do you select people for promotion?
He was selected to play for Australia at the age of only 18.
The supermarket's policy is to select out the best fruit and discard the rest.
I've been selected to play on the school football team and we've got a match tomorrow.
when someone or something is chosen
the selection process
We need to make a selection from these applicants.
Success is achieved by the careful selection of projects.
The selection of films and plays was well made, but I would have appreciated it if there had been more.
a group of people or things that has been chosen
Most schools would have a good selection of these books in their libraries.
The larger shops are able to stock a wide selection of goods.
There is a good selection of bar food.
intentionally choosing some things or people and not others
As a teacher she was very selective, accepting only a small number of highly talented pupils.
He seemed to have a very selective recall of past events.
At the same time, this makes us extremely selective when it comes to the people we want working with us.
your characteristics, including your personality, your abilities, etc.
our sense of self
his real/true self
True recognition and happiness can't be derived from television or front covers but only from one's true self.
the quality of being confident about yourself
He spoke with remarkable self-assurance for such a young man.
She would have to show self-assurance, determination to get the job, and give the feeling that she would be up to the task.
confident about yourself
She's a very self-assured young woman.
I assume that in order to reach success you must be shrewd, self-reliant, self-assured and above all assertive.
good knowledge and judgment about yourself
She has a high level of self-awareness.
Montag's friendship with Clarisse, a young girl who is sensitive towards humans and nature, serves as a catalyst in the commencement of the antagonist's self-awareness.
describes a holiday or place in which you have a kitchen so that you can cook meals for yourself
We decided to stay in self-catering accommodation rather than in a hotel.
It is situated in London so it seems to me that it would give you the opportunity to learn more about everyday English life. Moreover, the accommodation is top quality, as there are single rooms, and self-catering facilities.
interested only in yourself
Stop being so self-centred!
This way of thinking is very important because a person who spends a lot of time alone can become self-centred and insensitive to others.
being self-confident
Since she left home, her self-confidence has grown.
In my opinion, the reason for it is that not many people know how to prepare for an interview and gain self-confidence.
feeling sure about yourself and your abilities
He's a very self-confident young man.
So when the day came, she felt much more self-confident and determined than before.
nervous or uncomfortably aware of yourself and what people think about you or your actions
He looked uncomfortable, like a self-conscious adolescent who's gone to the wrong party.
Video equipment however is something we have been wanting for a long time, for the following reasons: ... - to enhance interpretation of body language as well as spoken language; this aspect is often neglected but of major importance; - to record and play back the students while speaking a monologue or discussing among a group: this enhances their fluency and makes them less self-conscious and thus more confident while expressing themselves in a foreign language; - last but not least: to make learning more fun and thus attract more students.
the ability to control your emotions and actions although you are very angry, upset, etc.
He displayed a total lack of self-control.
Doing that kind of job requires a lot of self-control.
the ability to make yourself do things that you do not want to do
I haven't got the self-discipline to be an athlete.
Nowadays, some of her most noticeable characterictics are her courtesy, her self-discipline and the compassion that she shows for those who suffer.
confidence in yourself and a belief in your qualities and abilities
She suffers from low self-esteem.
I think that the lack of self-esteem among men underlies the whole situation.
caring only about yourself and not other people
It's very selfish of him to go away every weekend.
The judge told him: "Your attitude shows a selfish disregard for others."
I found this sport very interesting, because you have to play in a team so you must not be selfish, you have to change your spirit.
the quality of being selfish
I was appalled by his selfishness.
It seems to me that everywhere in the world, people are not necessarily aware of the fact that planet Earth is the most precious gift we have. Greed and selfishness are also very common in Switzerland, even if this country might be already a few steps further forward than others.
rich because you have earned a lot of money yourself
a self-made millionaire
One of the reasons I think my father is successful in life is because he is a self-made man.
the quality of not needing help and support from other people
These kids need to learn some self-reliance.
When she finally faced "Mr Right" for the second time this morning, she discovered she was a new woman, endowed with self-reliance and a high sense of her being, her self-esteem, magically empowered.
able to do things yourself without depending on other people
The children are beginning to be a bit more self-reliant.
You must have a firm, outgoing personality, but be self-reliant and strong-willed.
the feeling of pride in yourself and your character
Having a job gave them back their self-respect.
And this proves that professional activity is a source of self-respect and, eventually, leads to satisfaction.
A self-service restaurant or shop is one in which you serve yourself and are not served by the people who work there.
It was a cheap, self-service restaurant.
I went to have lunch in a self-service restaurant and in the afternoon I continued my visit.
having everything that you need yourself and not needing help from others
We are completely self-sufficient in vegetables.
Nowadays, though we consider the fact of having longer life expectancy an improvement, the society tends to marginalise an old person and tends to view him or her as a burden, especially if this person is not self-sufficient.
to give something to someone else in return for money
I sold my car to him for £600.
We'll be selling the tickets at/for £50 each.
I want to sell my computer.
to offer something for people to buy
Excuse me, do you sell newspapers?
The stall sells drinks and snacks.
We have some malls which sell clothes and I love shopping there.
to be available for sale at a particular price
The shirts are selling for £30 each.
I heard larger t-shirts are selling for €35.
to be bought in large numbers
His last book sold eight million copies.
The single with her new song sold more than 15 million copies, now she was a powerfull star.
to persuade someone that an idea or plan is good
I'm currently trying to sell the idea to my boss.
to be bought quickly and in large numbers
Their new game is selling like hot cakes.
Books about how to remain young are selling like hot cakes.
someone who sells something
flower/newspaper/souvenir sellers
Do you think the seller will accept £96 000 for the house?
It was then my mother remembered a toy seller had been selling toys in the place where we had been waiting in the station and that our suitcases must have got mixed up.
a mark (;) used to separate parts of a sentence, or items in a list which already has commas
Use a semicolon to separate the groups of items in your list.
A semi-detached house has one wall that is joined to another house.
We live in a semi-detached house.
When I was in London I lived in a semi-detached house as well.
one of the two games in a sports competition that are played to decide who will play in the final game
Who's in the semi-finals?
She's the youngest player ever to get through to a semi-final.
One Sunday morning we had to play the cup semi-final against our great rival.
a meeting of a group of people with a teacher or expert for training, discussion, or study of a subject
I attended practically every lecture and seminar when I was a student.
I'm giving a seminar on the latest developments in genetic engineering next week.
a seminar room
I also need this job because I need money to attend some seminars.
to arrange for something to go or be taken somewhere, especially by post
Juan has just sent me a text message.
Send me an email with your dates.
I'll send her a letter/fax/parcel/postcard next week.
We'll send it by post/airmail.
They sent her flowers for her birthday.
Maggie sends her love and hopes you'll feel better soon.
I can use the internet to learn English, and sometimes I send e-mails.
to make someone go somewhere
We're sending the children to stay with my parents for a couple of weeks.
The commander has asked us to send reinforcements.
They've sent their son (away) to school in Scotland.
He was trying to explain but she became impatient and sent him away.
We should build more schools because we only have one, so we have to send our children away and none of us like that.
to cause someone or something to do a particular thing, or to cause something to happen
The explosion sent the crowd into a panic.
Watching the television always sends me to sleep.
His untidiness sends her crazy/mad/wild.
The draught from the fan sent papers flying all over the room.
While we were singing a duet by Mendelssohn with my sister, a sweeping movement of my hand sent two pages of music flying towards the first row of seats.
to make you feel afraid or excited
The sound of his voice sent shivers down my spine.
Simply looking at her sent shivers down his spine - there was the love of his life, the dearest woman on good old Earth, that he's never met before.
having a more important job or position than someone else
a senior executive
We work in the same team but she's senior to me.
a senior government minister
She is also extraordinary in that she graduated from Harvard University and Tokyo University and used to work for the Ministry of the Foreign Affairs as a senior civil servant.
relating to people who are older
You can't use a senior ticket during the rush hour - you have to pay full fare.
When I got to the tickets desk before the show to buy my ticket I asked for a senior discount, and the woman told me there were no discounts available as I read on the advertising.
a physical feeling, or the ability to physically feel things
a burning sensation
I had no sensation of pain whatsoever.
The disease causes a loss of sensation in the fingers.
When I fell into the water, I was shocked. I couldn't move my right leg, the sensation was horrible.
a strange feeling or idea that you cannot explain
I had the odd sensation (that) someone was following me.
Suddenly I had the sensation that something was wrong.
a lot of excitement, surprise or interest
Their marriage caused a sensation.
In the poetry, she expressed her sad feeling, thinking of her brother who was in China as a soldier. It caused a sensation.
done in a way that is intended to shock people
sensational journalism
I think that the journalists desired sensational news far too much and they exaggerated.
very exciting or extremely good
a sensational performance
If you are up for some sensational fun, "New York-New York" is your place, with a crazy roller coaster soaring through the lobby and out into open air.
a feeling or understanding about yourself or about a situation
Did you get any sense of what they might do?
Living out in the country gave us a great sense of freedom.
I like to see how people fight for the prize. I like this sense of competition that only sport gives!
the ability to understand funny things and to be funny yourself
Carol has a wicked sense of humour.
Most of them have an incredible sense of humour so we laugh a lot when we go there.
good judgment, especially about practical things
I hope they'll have the (good) sense/have enough sense to shut the windows before they leave.
There's no sense in waiting - the next train isn't for two hours.
People should have the sense to dispose of all the waste properly.
the ability to do something
He's got a good sense of direction and hardly ever uses a map.
good business sense
Animals are part of nature so they must be free to go where their sense of direction leads them.
one of the five natural abilities of sight, hearing, touch, smell, and taste
With her keen sense of smell, she could tell if you were a smoker from the other side of the room.
My cold is so bad I've lost my sense of smell/taste.
You can enjoy a flight with all your five senses.
to have a meaning or reason that you can understand
He's written me this note but it doesn't make any sense.
Eighty kilometres in the mountains just to look at views doesn't make any sense to me.
to be a good thing to do
It makes sense to buy now while prices are low.
Therefore it makes sense to use the innovations.
one of the possible meanings of a word or phrase
They are not immigrants, at least not in any sense that I understand.
The packaging is green - in both senses of the word.
Security defined in the broad/broadest sense of the term means getting at the root causes of trouble and helping to reduce regional conflicts.
The Empress was an ideal lady in every sense of the word.
thinking about something in a particular way
In a sense, he's right.
In a sense this is correct, since you have to leave your natural environment to visit a place where no human being is meant to survive.
to understand something that is difficult to understand
I'm trying to make sense of this document.
In fact, it's during his journey that Stevens begins to make sense of his life, of all the years he spent as a butler, as the 'perfect butler' who had to be loyal, silent and discreet.
to realize you are wrong or have been behaving stupidly
We talked to her for an hour, but we couldn't make her see sense.
Ralph tries to make Jack see sense by showing him the conch which had been the symbol of leadership and also, friendship.
to feel or experience something without being able to explain exactly how
Although she said nothing, I could sense her anger
He sensed something was about to happen.
He sensed (that) his guests were bored, although they were listening politely.
Could you sense what was likely to happen?
So Monica's aunt somehow subconsciously sensed that something was going to happen.
happening or done without a good reason
senseless violence
Maybe after a thousand years of wars between Poland and Germany both sides have finally decided that fighting and killing is senseless.
someone's feelings, or the ability to understand what other people feel
his aesthetic sensibility
All the features mentioned above are extremely important but they mean nothing if your offspring lacks kindness, sensibility and ignores his family traditions.
showing good judgment
a sensible answer/approach/choice/option
a sensible person
I think the sensible thing to do is phone before you go and ask for directions.
It would be sensible to take an umbrella.
I know it sounds strange but there's a sensible reason: money talks.
in a sensible way
She behaved very sensibly about it.
They very sensibly decided to stay at home.
As time goes by, these kids quite don't understand the importance of using money sensibly and saving money.
easily upset by the things people say or do
Her reply showed that she was very sensitive to criticism.
He was very sensitive about his scar and thought everyone was staring at him.
Nowadays we are not so sensitive.
able to react very quickly and easily
These scales are very sensitive.
He has a very sensitive nose.
I am very sensitive to noise, especially at night, and tend to catch a cold even in summer.
easy to damage and needing to be protected
I have very sensitive skin.
A sensitive subject or situation needs to be dealt with carefully in order to avoid upsetting people.
Sex education and birth control are sensitive issues.
The stolen car contained military documents described as very sensitive.
I knew that I could not cry and shout because it was too important and sensitive a problem for us.
able to understand what people are feeling and deal with them in a way that does not upset them
I want a man who's kind and sensitive.
Representatives of the company claim their plan will be sensitive to local needs.
In the movie, he plays a concerned and sensitive father trying to bring up two teenage children on his own.
One thing Bobby is good at is that he is bright and sensitive enough to protect you.
the ability to understand how other people are feeling and to be helpful and kind to them
The police showed great sensitivity in their handling of the case.
It is written with sensitivity, honesty, sincerity and objectiveness.
the quality of being easily upset by things that people say or do
I should have warned you about her sensitivity to criticism.
One of her weaknesses would be her great sensitivity.
a group of words, usually containing a verb, that expresses a complete idea
He's very impatient and always interrupts me mid-sentence.
Your conclusion is good, but the final sentence is too long and complicated.
Every lesson, I read and write loads of sentences.
a punishment that a judge gives to someone who has committed a crime
He got a heavy/light sentence.
The offence carries a jail/prison/life/5-year sentence.
This is even worse than a real life sentence.
to give a punishment to someone who has committed a crime
He was sentenced to life imprisonment.
Soon afterwards he gets imprisoned again and is sentenced to death. Sydney takes his place and is executed instead of him.
an opinion that you have because of the way you feel about something
nationalist/religious sentiments
We would discuss for hours on end, arguing most of the times, and never express our true inner sentiments.
showing kind feelings such as sympathy, love, etc., especially in a silly way
a sentimental song
The British are very sentimental about animals.
I do love Lighthouse Family's music - the sentimental lyrics and catchy tunes all flow with the black singer's magic voice.
related to feelings and memories and not related to how much money something costs
It wasn't an expensive ring but it had great sentimental value.
It can be the value in money that makes people be attached to a possession or, rather, a sentimental or symbolic link.
not joined or touching anything else
a separate compartment
I try to keep meat separate from other food in the fridge.
But there was no choice, as all my friends that did go were already in separate rooms.
different or new
Use a separate sheet of paper.
The art department and the main college are in two separate buildings.
Yesterday I bought a lot of presents, so I needed a separate suitcase.
not affecting or related to each other
I've asked him to turn his music down on three separate occasions.
I have my professional life and my private life and I try to keep them separate.
Three youths have been shot and killed in separate incidents this month.
She went to Lisbon, and we ended up living separate lives.
to divide into parts, or to make something divide into parts
I separated the class into three groups.
The north and south of the country are separated by a mountain range.
You can get a special device for separating egg whites from yolks.
The top and bottom sections are quite difficult to separate.
On the other hand, more bins ought to be put in the centre to encourage people to separate their rubbish more carefully.
to move apart, or to make people move apart
I shall separate you two if you don't stop talking.
Somehow, in the rush to get out of the building, I got separated from my mother.
Perhaps we should separate now and meet up later.
I noticed that there were some people fighting, and we tried to separate them.
to start to live in a different place from your husband or wife because the relationship has ended
My parents separated when I was four.
But his parents separated and John didn't see his mother again, as well as his sister, after that day.
not together
Detectives interviewed the men separately.
I tend to wear the jacket and skirt separately rather than as a suit.
I think we'd better deal with these two points separately.
They were living separately and missing each other.
when two or more people or things are separated
During the war, many couples had to face long periods of separation.
After many years, the government finally abandoned its apartheid system of racial separation.
One of the most important projects is the separation of the rubbish and I think that it has worked, but it could work better.
the decision of two people who were married or living together to stop living together
They decided on a trial separation.
We lived for a time in peace but our happiness ceased because of his jealousy and fear of losing me, which was the cause of our daylong quarrels. There was no solution apart from separation.
the ninth month of the year, after August and before October
23(rd) September/September 23(rd)
We're leaving for France on September the ninth/the ninth of September.
Claudia started school last September/is starting school next September.
My mother's birthday is in September.
My course started in September.
a part of a film or video game that shows one thing that happens
I particularly enjoyed the dream sequence.
However, the rest of the game is not as polished as the opening sequence: indeed, it seems that the developers simply re-used the graphical engine of the prequel, without even revamping it: the result is truly disappointing.
a series of related events or things that have a particular order
the sequence of events that led to his death
They don't emerge from nowhere, as there was a certain sequence of events that has led to them, so having the full picture with past events influencing our present can help us to find efficient solutions.
the order that events or things should happen or be arranged in
I got my slides mixed up and they appeared out of sequence.
It was the fourth summer in sequence that he had chosen this hotel to spend his holiday but this he had never experienced before.
calm and quiet
a serene face/smile
I enjoy looking at this image, which bears the skill of a 16th century artist: the mother's expression is solemn and tender as she looks at the boy, while Christ's face is completely serene and is lit with a faint smile.
a feeling of being calm and happy
She sat there with an air of serenity about her.
She strongly believes that art brings peace, harmony, serenity and tranquillity in their life, which could balance their emotions and help them to overcome difficulties.
describes a person who repeatedly commits the same serious crime, often using the same method, or a serious crime that is committed repeatedly by one person
She wrote a thriller about a brutal serial killer.
a serial rapist
serial murders/killings
These pictures have never been broadcast because too many important people are involved in these serial killings.
a story in a magazine or on television or radio that is told in separate parts over a period of time
I'm watching a serial set in Yorkshire.
As I have already mentioned the quality of the English language used is exceptional and I would like to congratulate all the people that take part in the serial.
a group of television or radio programmes that have the same main characters or deal with the same subject
The footballer Paul Gascoigne is to host a Channel 4 television series on soccer skills.
a comedy series
I missed the second episode of the series so I don't know what's going on now.
I like television series like Smallville.
several things or events of the same type that come one after the other
He's had a series of tests at the hospital but they can't find anything wrong.
She gave a series of lectures at Warwick University last year on contemporary British writers.
The aim of this report is to make a series of suggestions on which lessons and other activities should be filmed.
a set of books published by the same company which deal with the same subject
They do a series on architecture throughout the ages.
We read all of Poirot and the Miss Marple series.
A serious problem or situation is bad and makes people worry.
a serious illness
There were no reports of serious injuries.
The new tax regulations have landed some of the smaller companies in serious trouble.
A shortage of space has become a serious problem in a lot of schools.
He's been taken to hospital where his condition is described as serious but stable.
As you know I have got a serious problem with my eyes.
not joking or intended to be funny
Please don't laugh - I'm being serious.
He was wearing a very serious expression and I knew something was wrong.
On the surface it's a very funny novel but it does have a more serious underlying theme.
Is she serious about going to live abroad?
We are taught how to act in both comic and serious parts.
A serious person does not laugh often.
I remember her as a very serious child.
Well, the new teacher is very serious, but this is ok.
needing or deserving your complete attention
That's an interesting job offer - I'd give it some serious consideration if I were you.
We've got some serious talking to do, you and me.
I think it would be worthwhile to give serious thought to these animals.
badly or severely
seriously ill/worried
He wasn't seriously injured - he just got a few cuts and bruises.
She is seriously ill with cancer.
in a way that shows that you are not joking
Seriously now, did he really say that or are you just being silly?
You're not seriously thinking of leaving, are you?
Seriously, Tom, I have noticed that you get angry very easily since your examinations started.
to consider a person, subject or situation to be important or dangerous and worth your attention or respect
The police have to take any terrorist threat seriously.
You don't take anything seriously, do you? It's all one big joke to you.
She wants to be taken seriously as an actress.
These young actors take themselves so seriously!
I hope you take my suggestions seriously.
someone who works and lives in someone else's house doing their cooking and cleaning, especially in the past
They employed more than 50 servants.
In this book, the author includes a detailed description of the two main characters: the rich English master PHILEAS FOGG and his French servant PASSEPARTOUT.
to give someone food or drink, especially guests or customers in a restaurant or bar
Do they serve meals in the bar?
Breakfast is served in the restaurant between 7 and 9.
We arrived at the hotel and were served with champagne and strawberries.
All recipes in this book will serve 4 to 5 people.
Serve the tarts hot with custard or whipped cream.
We ate a lot because my mom served many kinds of food at my party.
to help customers and sell things to them in a shop
Are you being served?
I also learnt a lot about how to serve customers and how to use a till.
to be useful as something
It's a very entertaining film but it also serves an educational purpose.
The spare bedroom also serves as a study.
He hopes his son's death will serve to warn others about the dangers of owning a gun.
Nothing serves to explain the violent fighting we have seen recently.
As for replanting, it will serve to rejuvenate our forests around Agrinio.
to do work that helps society, for example in an organization such as the army or the government
to serve in the army
to serve on a committee/jury
He served as mayor for 5 years.
He always wanted to serve his country.
Women in the former GDR had the same rights and had to fulfill nearly the same duties (except the duty to serve in the army) as men.
to be in prison for a period of time
Williams, 42, is serving a four-year jail sentence.
It all came to me in prison where I was serving a two-year sentence.
to have a use
These small village shops serve a very useful purpose.
They introduced meetings at Miss Kenton's parlour which were held every evening and served the purpose of discussing house running.
a central computer from which other computers get information
a network/file server
It was my boss, who said "I'm in Australia, and I can't read my e-mail, the server at work crashed.
a system or organization that provides something that people need
the ambulance/health/postal/prison service
They provide a free bus service from the station.
We hope to be operating a normal service as soon as possible.
I told him to phone the after-sales service.
when people help you and bring you things in a place such as a shop, restaurant, or hotel
The only trouble with this café is that the service is so slow.
I think the Cinemark is the best cinema because it has good service and it is cheap.
an amount of money charged for serving a customer in a restaurant, which is often paid directly to the waiter
There is a 10% service charge included in the bill.
Does the bill include service?
The thing which annoyed me the most was that they have a 20% service charge, but I refused to pay it because there was no service.
a government department that is responsible for a particular area of activity
the diplomatic service
the security services
I was employed in the security service.
the armed forces, or work done in the armed forces
He joined the air force in 1964 and spent ten years in the service.
Most of my family were in the services.
All men under thirty-five were told to report for military service within three days.
Service personnel are subject to the Official Secrets Act.
He finished his military service, and now he was on his way to his family, who had been waiting for him for a long time.
the time you spend working for an organization
He retired last week after 25 years' service.
In my mind he is the perfect candidate, because due to his long service in the U.S. Army, where superiors are obliged to take care of their subordinates, he was in contact with young people from all kinds of ethnic backgrounds and social classes.
a period of time or a meeting arranged for a particular activity
The 21-year-old runner twisted his ankle in a training session last Friday.
As the heads of state gathered, the press were allowed in for a photo session.
Last week we had the normal two training sessions and a game against another club.
If a story, film, etc. is set in a particular time or place, the action in it happens in that time or place.
'West Side Story' is set in New York in the late 1950s.
It was an adventure story and I liked it a lot because it was set in Australia.
to fix a date or time for something
Juan and Maria have set a date for their wedding - it's going to be on August 31.
Has a time been set for the meeting yet?
I'm going to miss your class tomorrow, but we can set a date to cover the work on.
When the sun sets, it moves down in the sky until it cannot be seen.
The sun rises in the East and sets in the West.
I loved the thin fog before the sun set.
to make a piece of equipment ready to be used
The heating is set to come on at 5.00 p.m.
Have you set the video recorder?
I usually set my watch by the time signal on the radio.
He set the alarm for 7.00 a.m.
I had forgotten to set the alarm clock the previous night and by the time I got up it was already 9 o'clock.
if something is set somewhere, it is in that place or position
The campsite is set in the middle of a pine forest.
Our house is set back from the road.
The camp is set in a beautiful place in the heart of nature, with lots of opportunities to get out of the camp if you want to.
to cause something or someone to be in the stated condition or situation
It is believed that the building was set on fire deliberately.
She set fire to her neighbour's house.
After years in prison, the men who had wrongfully been found guilty of the bombing were finally set free.
A modern zoo must be like a forest, without cages, and the animals must be set free.
to give someone something to do or achieve
Our teacher has set us a lot of homework.
He's set himself the goal/target of making his first million by the time he's 30.
I suggest it would be a good idea to set more projections next year.
to do something in a good way so that other people might try to copy you
Try to set a good example to the children.
It sets a good example for other museums.
to establish the best achievement so far in a sport or competition
Bolt has set a new world record.
to decide the level of something
The interest rate has been set at 5%.
In addition to all this, I must point out that our agreement regarding the student discount on all tickets was set at 10%, not 5%, as you mentioned on your handout.
to go into a place or onto a piece of land
He told me never to set foot in his house again.
I dream of being the first one to set foot on a white sandy beach, to admire a new kind of vegetation: cranberry bushes, sweet potatoes, wild turkeys, a different climate; how scary and exciting at the same time!
to establish guidelines, standards, etc. that must be followed
Our school sets very high standards and most students achieve them.
But I do know that even though my parents were indulgent, affectionate and warm, they still quite clearly set standards on how I was supposed to behave.
to put something somewhere
She set the vase down on the table.
to make something start burning, usually to cause damage
Enemy troops set fire to the village.
At this point nothing made sense anymore, so I just watched while Jake set the car on fire.
to start a journey by boat or ship
We set sail for home the next day.
What made things turn from grey to black was that soon after my return I was invited to set sail to the Spanish islands.
to decide to achieve something
She's set her sights on becoming a doctor.
This resemblance was the final silent argument that convinced Wormold to promise Milly the expensive and beautiful horse she had set her sights on.
a group of things which belong together
a boxed set of DVDs
a chess/train/chemistry set
a set of instructions/rules
a set of keys
We bought Charles and Mandy a set of salad bowls as a wedding present.
I always keep a tool set in the back of my car.
The doctor said that he hadn't seen this particular set of symptoms before.
We need to establish a new set of priorities.
What you have to bring is a set of 24 coloured pencils, a pen, a paint brush, an apron and also lots of A4.
a part of a game of tennis
They won in straight sets.
Finally we managed to win the second set so we were equal.
the place where a film or play is performed or recorded, and the pictures, furniture, etc. that are used
a film set
a stage set
a set designer
They first met on the set of 'Star Wars'.
Her father, John, was a stuntperson and he died in an unfortunate accident while he was performing on a film set.
to be ready
We were all set to go when the phone rang.
So, there you go. I'm all set!
fixed and never changing
Most people work for a set number of hours each week.
I have no set routine.
Even if there is a set number of standard models, there is always ample room for personal choice according to your taste.
a problem that makes something happen later or more slowly than it should
The project has suffered a series of setbacks this year.
A strong bond between you and your friends, with whom you can have discussions about personal setbacks, is another very vital point.
the position of a house or other building
Their cottage is in a beautiful rural setting.
It is a beautiful setting with old architecture, trees and glittering water.
the time and the place in which the action of a book, movie, play, etc. happens
The play has its setting in a wartime prison camp.
The setting of "The Third Man" is Vienna after the Second World War.
to start living somewhere that you are going to live for a long time
After they got married, they settled in Brighton.
He travelled around Europe before finally settling in Rome.
I can understand why you have decided to settle near the Loire Valley, which is one of the greatest parts of France.
to decide or arrange something
Right, that's settled. We're going to Spain.
They haven't yet settled when the wedding is going to be.
"The tickets are £40 each." "Well, that settles that then - I can't afford that much."
I'd like to get this matter settled once and for all.
The details of the contract have not yet been settled.
I really hope it will not take you long to settle the matter.
If you settle an argument, you solve the problem and stop arguing.
My father and I have agreed finally to settle our differences.
It took months to settle the dispute/strike.
Caroline and her husband had had an argument last week, but as he was going to be away for a few days, they had finally settled their differences.
to move to a lower level and stay there
The house had been empty for years, and dust had settled on all the surfaces.
Do you think the snow will settle?
The contents of this packet may settle.
Whenever I have cleaned my shelves you can just watch the dust settle on them.
If you settle a bill or a debt, you pay the money that you owe.
I've got some bills to settle.
Many individuals are caught overspending when they check their credit card statements, later having to borrow from money lenders to settle their bills.
an official agreement that finishes an argument
a peace settlement
All employees working for the public transport went on strike a week ago, and there is no settlement in sight.
an arrangement to end a disagreement without taking it to a court of law
They reached an out-of-court settlement.
Hoping for a settlement without having to involve the courts, I remain.
a town or village which people built to live in after arriving from somewhere else
a Jewish settlement
The traditional style of small living communities in tribes cannot be sustained, since the farmlands around a settlement cannot provide the people with sufficient food and work.
the number 7
The restaurant opens for dinner at seven o'clock.
We're open seven days a week.
Tomorrow I'll finish my work at six o'clock, so I think that I'll can arrive your home at seven o'clock.
the number 17
sixteen, seventeen, eighteen
Is that a seventeen on the front of that bus?
He is seventeen years old.
7th written as a word
It's the seventh (of May) today.
Our team came in seventh.
The day of the art class is the seventh of May.
the number 70
sixty, seventy, eighty
This house was built seventy years ago.
It cost seventy pounds.
to be aged between 70 and 79
Both my parents are in their seventies.
After some minutes, an old man in his late seventies opened the door and told us in his trembling voice that Daisy wasn't at home.
the years from 1970-1979
I grew up in the seventies.
The nineties is, indeed, a reverse of the seventies.
some, but not a lot
I've seen 'Gone with the Wind' several times.
Several people have complained about the scheme.
Several of my friends are learning English at language schools in Cambridge.
I also got several books, a beautiful bag, a T-shirt, etc.
extremely bad
a severe chest infection/leg injury/toothache
This is a school for children with severe learning difficulties.
In parts of Africa there is a severe food/water shortage.
There is expected to be a severe frost tonight.
Their life was a severe financial struggle, and Tom's dream was to run somewhere far away.
a severe person is unfriendly or very strict
She had her hair tied back in a severe style.
The teacher was a small, severe man.
Jane Eyre is sent away to a school for orphans. ... The atmosphere in school is no better, with little food and severe teachers.
very seriously
Their daughter was severely injured in a car accident.
severely disabled
Job opportunities are severely limited/restricted at the moment.
In spite of trying to repair it, it is still severely damaged.
how severe something is
Flights were cancelled owing to the severity of the weather.
In conclusion, we have to accept the severity of the environmental damage, but we should not give up our hopes for a better future.
to make or repair clothes by joining pieces of cloth using a needle and thread
My grandmother taught me to sew.
I made this skirt just by sewing two pieces of material together.
She sews all her children's clothes.
He sewed the badge neatly onto his uniform.
Well, I used to sew my clothes on my own.
the activity of joining pieces of cloth together or repairing them with a needle and thread
I'm not very good at sewing.
I especially cherish the idea of finding myself in Camelot being a lady in waiting to Queen Guinevere - to spend my days reading, sewing, embroidering, learning about far off places and discoveries, adventures and the latest gossip from the court.
sexual activity between people
Sex before/outside marriage is strongly disapproved of in some cultures.
She was complaining about all the sex and violence on television.
She'd been having sex with a colleague at work for years.
Most young people now receive sex education at school.
unprotected sex
I hate watching soap operas and thrillers, because they contain too much violence and sex.
the state of being either male or female
What sex is your cat?
Some tests enable you to find out the sex of your baby before it's born.
The teacher gave me the application form about my name, age, sex, nationality and address.
people who are the other sex from you
He would never dare to speak to a member of the opposite sex.
This is not only about trying to impress (preferably) a person of the opposite sex, but fashion also gives you a great chance to express yourself.
relating to the activity of sex
a sexual relationship
Most people remember their first sexual experience.
Before continuing with the story I would like to remind you that having sexual relationships was common to everybody in Brave New World.
relating to being male or female
Sexual equality will not be achieved until there is more provision for childcare.
Some steps have been taken towards ending sexual discrimination.
But we must not forget that there is still sexual discrimination when women apply for jobs higher up in a hierarchy.
attractive or exciting in a sexual way
sexy underwear
He's very sexy.
Richard was only wearing Levis Jeans and a white T shirt but looked so sexy and handsome.
looking untidy and in bad condition
shabby clothes/furniture
With neither lift nor room service provided our guests had to stay in dirty and shabby rooms on the 4th floor.
not fair or not honest
She received very shabby treatment from her employers.
Due to such shabby arguments, my adversaries lost the favour of the population.
an area where there is no light from the sun and so it is darker and not as hot
I'd prefer to sit in the shade.
The sun was hot, and there were no trees to offer us shade.
The children played in/under the shade of a large beach umbrella.
The shade from huge trees kept me cool and fresh.
a colour, especially when referring to how dark or light it is
a pale/dark shade of grey
Not only was it a beautiful day but the sky was a magnificent shade of blue as well.
a small amount
He's perhaps a shade taller.
Their salaries are, even when the same job is done, mostly a shade under a man's salary.
a cover that stops too much light coming from the sun or from an electric light
a lamp shade
You will like sitting there at dark wooden tables, under the light coming from red and white checked lamp shades hanging from the ceiling.
a dark area made by something that is stopping the light
The tree had cast a long shadow.
The children were playing, jumping on each other's shadows.
Jamie followed his mother around all day like a shadow.
This corner of the room is always in shadow.
Suddenly I saw a shadow and as I turned over I noticed that something was moving in the trees.
If something is true beyond a shadow of a doubt, it is certainly true.
He stole the money, without a shadow of a doubt.
It is beyond the shadow of a doubt that Douglas does not offer her this kind of life.
to move backwards and forwards or up and down in quick, short movements, or to make something or someone do this
A young boy climbed into the apple tree and shook the branches so that the fruit fell down.
Babies like toys that make a noise when they're shaken.
The explosion shook buildings for miles around.
She shook her hair loose from its ribbon.
Every time one of these big trucks goes through the village, all the houses shake.
Every time I got closer to her, my body started to shake a lot.
to hold someone's hand and move it up and down when you meet them for the first time, or when you make an agreement with them
The two leaders smiled and shook hands for the photographers.
I shook hands with him.
I felt embarrassed when all my friends thought they were my friends, so they all shook hands with them except me.
If you are shaking, your body makes quick short movements, or you feel as if it is doing so, because you are frightened or nervous.
She was shaking as she opened the letter.
Her voice shook as she spoke about the person who attacked her.
I was shaking in my shoes/boots about having to tell Dad what I'd done.
I was shaking like a leaf before my exam.
She understood that it was absolutely foolish of her to stand there shaking with fear.
to move your head from side to side to mean 'no'
I asked him if he wanted to come and he just shook his head.
He just looked at me shaking his head and got into his car and drove off.
If your voice shakes, you sound very nervous or frightened.
He looked pale, and his voice shook as he spoke.
"Excuse me, my name is Heathcliff Moore, I'm a musician", he approached the owner with shaking voice.
shocked and upset
They were not injured in the accident, but they were badly shaken.
After that encounter with her old classmate she felt shaken and upset.
used to make an offer or suggestion
Shall I cook dinner tonight?
We'll ask him later, shall we?
After the film, shall we go to eat pizza next to the cinema?
used to ask someone what to do
What restaurant shall we go to?
Who shall I ask?
What time will you be free? When shall we meet?
used to say what you are going to do in the future
I shall be talking to her tomorrow.
I shan't forget to tell them.
I shall look forward to meeting you next week.
So we'll see you at the weekend, shall we?
I shall make sure that the work I miss is completed by borrowing my friend's notes.
not deep
The stream was quite shallow so we were able to walk across it.
She told her children to stay in the shallow end (of the swimming pool).
Fry the onions in a shallow pan.
These beech trees have shallow roots.
A heavy body plunged into the shallow water of harbor No 14.
not showing any interest in serious ideas
He is a very shallow person.
She is shallow and superficial, and she finds it hard to relate to her husband.
If you describe something as a shame, you are disappointed that it has happened.
It's a real shame to waste all this food.
What a shame that they had to destroy such a beautiful building.
Dear Ally, It's a shame you couldn't come to my party.
when you feel embarrassed and guilty about something bad that you have done
He said he felt no shame for what he had done.
The children hung their heads in shame.
You can't go dressed like that - have you no shame ?
In some societies, if a woman leaves her husband, it brings shame on her and her family.
It destroys the individual, brings shame to his family, and is a liability instead of an asset to his society.
Something shameful is bad and should make you feel embarrassed and guilty.
shameful scenes
What a shameful way of wasting natural resources!
a liquid substance that you use to wash your hair
an anti-dandruff shampoo
Directions: wet hair, apply shampoo and massage into a rich lather.
I think the soap and the shampoo are in the bathroom.
the physical form of something made by the line around its outer edge
a circular/rectangular shape
You can recognize trees by the shape of their leaves.
Very few people are really happy with their body shape.
These bricks are all different shapes.
Kim's birthday cake was in the shape of a train.
My bicycle wheel has got bent out of shape.
This T-shirt has been washed so many times that it's lost its shape.
A triangle is a shape with three sides.
Well, it looks like yours, you know, the same size and shape.
in good/bad, etc. health or condition
She runs every day so she's in great shape.
I am of the opinion that if you are in good shape and the distance is not too much, you should leave the car at home and use the bike.
to stay healthy and physically strong
It's important to keep in shape.
We want to keep in shape, and we are interested in a gym - do you have one or is there one close to there?
many different types of people or things
We saw people there of all shapes and sizes.
Personal Challenges come in all shapes and sizes.
not healthy or physically strong
Since I stopped cycling, I'm very out of shape.
I no longer run and it has been more than a year since the last time I raced, so I am out of shape.
to start to develop and become more clear or certain
The project is slowly beginning to take shape.
It is high time that their dreams took shape!
to influence the way that something develops
Many people are not able to shape their own destinies.
My relationship with my father played a major part in shaping my attitude towards men.
He was very influential in shaping the government's economic policy/strategy.
Therefore, in my opinion, we are shaped greatly by the people in our surroundings.
to have or use something at the same time as someone else
Bill and I shared an office for years.
I share a house with four other people.
She's very possessive about her toys and finds it hard to share.
There are two beds because I share my room with a friend.
to divide something between two or more people
Will you share your sandwich with me?
Let's share the sweets among/between everyone.
We should share (in) the reward.
We shared one big cake.
If two or more people or things share a feeling, quality or experience, they both or all have the same feeling, quality or experience.
We share an interest in sailing.
All hospitals share some common characteristics.
I don't share your views/beliefs.
Management and the union both share in the responsibility for the crisis.
She knew that he was the person she wanted to share her life with.
Her name is Gulia and I met her at the University. She is very nice, and we share many interests, so we gave each other our phone numbers.
If two or more people share an activity, they each do some of it
Shall we share the driving?
We shared the preparation for the party between us, so it wasn't too much work.
Ask your employer and other colleagues to share the work.
to tell someone your problems/thoughts, etc.
Would you like to share your thoughts with the group, Donald?
I have received your letter asking for my opinion about the Conference and have decided to write and share some of my thoughts.
a part of something that has been divided
The total bill comes to £80, so our share is £20.
We must make sure that everyone gets equal shares of the food.
The party's share of the vote fell from 39% to 24%.
She's not doing her share of the work.
We must all accept some share of the responsibility.
a lot of something and enough of it, usually something bad
We've had our fair share of rain already this summer.
It wasn't as if Jean hadn't seen his fair share of dead bodies, but these ones were far more, well, disgusting, than anything before.
one of the equal parts that the value of a company is divided into when it is owned by a group of people
to buy/sell shares
We own shares in a number of companies.
Share prices have fallen for the third day running.
It is no longer the consumer but the shareholder who must be kept happy, in order to keep the share price high, and the simple worker pays the price.
a large fish with very sharp teeth
a great white shark
The movie 'Jaws' is about a man-eating shark.
By the way, this ocean was full of sharks, our guide said.
having a very thin or pointed edge that can cut things
a sharp knife
sharp teeth/claws/fingernails
The point of this pencil isn't sharp enough.
My heart was broken by a knife, a sharp, hot knife, but I don't feel pain, I don't feel anything, I just want to die and forget about everything.
a sudden and very large increase or reduction in something
a sharp drop in temperature
a sharp decline in the standard of living
There was a sharp rise/increase in the number of flu cases.
If you have in mind my recommendations you will see a sharp increase in the number of students.
quick to notice and understand things
a sharp mind
She is an elderly woman who seems to be very weak but with an extremely sharp mind.
A sharp image is very clear.
a photograph in sharp focus
Quite the opposite, FFIX features beautiful pre-rendered 3D landscapes, along with real time characters: words are useless for describing such an achievement: the colours are vivid, sharp, the animations are smooth...
a very big and noticeable difference between two things
These luxurious surroundings were a sharp contrast to his home life.
Always willing to accomodate the need of the customers, the service of "Zithos" draws a sharp contrast with the often insolent and discourteous conduct of employees in other restaurants.
a sudden, short, strong pain
I felt a sharp pain in my leg.
All that Tom remembered afterwards was the loud noise of the braking tyres, a sharp pain in his legs and then darkness.
a sudden large change in the direction you are travelling
The vehicle came off the road at a sharp bend.
While my aunt was slowing down at a sharp bend, I distracted her and she lost control of the car.
suddenly or immediately
After the library, turn sharp left/right.
At the bus-stop you have to go straight on through the one-way street, then turn sharp left until you reach the staggered junction, where you will see a taxi rank.
exactly at the stated time
The performance will begin at 7.30 sharp.
You have to wake him up at 8.00 AM sharp.
to make something sharper
to sharpen a knife/pencil
For example, to write properly with a pencil, you need to sharpen it, but, for what purpose are you sharpening it?
to make something better or stronger
Recent changes have sharpened competition between the airlines.
I hope this course will help me sharpen my computer skills.
In fact, teachers and professors give us the opportunity to broaden our knowledge, sharpen our critical thought and in general to cultivate our mind and soul.
quickly and suddenly
Inflation has risen/fallen sharply.
His health improved/deteriorated sharply this week.
In the last few years, the trend of owning a mobile phone has increased sharply.
very upset
She was absolutely shattered when she failed the exam.
How many times have we confessed to ourselves that we feel emotionally shattered just because we cannot buy the all the rage luxurious bag on which we set our eyes the other day?
very tired
By the time I got home I was absolutely shattered.
Now, sitting in the comfortable armchair, he did not feel shattered anymore.
to cut hair off your face or body with a razor
John has to shave twice a day.
I always shave my legs in the bath.
Do you shave under your arms?
When my dad shaved his beard (off), he looked ten years younger.
The other men shave the man who is getting married.
used to refer to a woman, girl or female animal that has already been mentioned
I asked my mother if she'd lend me some money, but she said no.
She is 23 years old.
a small building, usually made of wood, used for storing things
a garden shed
a tool/bicycle shed
It was hidden in a shed that hardly anybody ever entered.
to cry
I shed a few tears when he left.
She was too preoccupied to talk to anybody and she had shed so many tears that she could cry no more.
to provide new information about something that makes it easier to understand
As an economist, he was able to shed some light on the situation.
In my opinion, a more complex evaluation of our attitude towards work will shed light on the process of work choice and it will give a greater amount of awareness to everyone.
a farm animal whose skin is covered with wool
This cheese is made from sheep's milk.
The farmer has several long-haired sheep.
Scotland is a beautiful country, there are a lot of lochs and sheep.
used to emphasize how strong a feeling or quality is
a look of sheer delight/joy
sheer determination/hard work
My mind was filled with nothing else but the sheer joy about soon becoming acquainted with something entirely new and completely unfamiliar plus the eager anticipation about meeting my host-family.
used to emphasize the large size or amount of something
The delays are due to the sheer volume of traffic.
Allow me to start by saying that one day, which may not lie so far off in the future, people will visit the buildings which were formerly known as "Educational Institutions" like we visit museums today to gape at the sheer size of the Dinosaurs...
very steep
a sheer cliff face
Mountaineering takes you on a swaying journey through stark contrasts, from the serenity of a peaceful dense forest to sheer cliff edges and peaks.
a flat piece of paper/glass, etc.
a sheet of yellow paper
We must bring paints and a sheet of paper.
a large piece of cloth put on a bed to lie on or under
I've put clean sheets on the bed.
I have a big bed with silk sheets.
a flat, horizontal board used to put things on, often fixed to a wall or inside a cupboard
a glass shelf
on the top/middle/bottom shelf
One wall had shelves from floor to ceiling, crammed with books.
I think I have left it on the shelf in your bedroom.
the hard outer covering of some creatures and of eggs, nuts, or seeds
Brazil nuts have very hard shells.
A piece of shell fell into the cake mixture.
the shell of a snail/crab/tortoise
a shell necklace
Mainly I collect books, postcards, dolls, silver bracelets and sea shells.
a place that protects you from bad weather or danger
an bomb shelter
We all ran to hide in the little shelter we had built.
protection from bad weather or danger
We took shelter from the rain in a doorway.
John told me it was a place where we could find shelter.
to go under a cover or inside a building to be protected from bad weather or danger
They went under a tree to shelter from the rain.
a large, flat object that police officers and soldiers hold in front of their bodies to protect themselves
The police protected themselves with shields.
The breed of white-skinned men that, every season, crammed in cars, campers, buses, boats or charter planes, leave their lands to ravage distant shores toting cameras and sun block as the barbarians of old held sword and shield.
to protect someone or something from something dangerous or unpleasant
to shield your eyes from the sun
On the other hand, children raised by wealthy families are believed to be so "well-pampered" that they are shielded from the harshness of real problems - such as poverty or malnutrition.
to change an idea, attitude, etc.
We are trying to shift the emphasis from curing illness to preventing it.
Media attention has shifted recently onto environmental issues.
Since the 1990s, though, the situation has shifted.
to move something to another place
We need to shift all these boxes into the other room.
We are very pleased with the idea of shifting the changing rooms and sauna to by the pool and having the coffee bar extended where the changing rooms and sauna are at present.
a period of work in a place such as a factory or hospital, or the people who do that work
As the night shift leave/leaves, the day shift arrive/arrives.
Are you on the night shift or the day shift ?
I worked there in two shifts, in the mornings and in the evenings, for approximately 8-10 hours a day.
a change in something
There has been a dramatic shift in public opinion on this matter.
Proposal: Improving Zurich's transport and housing facilities Census results of the last three decades have shown a shift in families' preferences on where to live.
to produce bright light
The sun was shining brightly through the window.
Is that light shining in your eyes?
The weather was good and the sun was shining.
If a surface shines, it reflects light, and if you shine it, you make it reflect light.
She polished her shoes until they shone.
I was so glad to see that little key shining in that box.
to do something very well, usually better than other people.
It was in art that he really shone.
Hard-working, intelligent, brave children can make the country shine in future.
If your eyes or face shine, you look happy, healthy, or excited.
His eyes were shining with excitement.
For if we refer back to the poem, Mother Teresa certainly displays all of the qualities mentioned in that poem: on most of the photos showing her, she is smiling radiantly, her wrinkled face shining with bliss.
A shiny surface is bright because it reflects light.
beautiful shiny hair
shiny black shoes
a shiny silver dollar
I prefer shiny tops and blue trousers.
a large boat that carries people or goods by sea
a sailing ship
a merchant/naval ship
They boarded a ship that was sailing the next day.
I will go there by ship.
a piece of clothing worn on the top part of the body, often made of thin material like cotton and fastened with buttons down the front
a striped/white shirt
a short-/long-sleeved shirt
You've spilled something down your shirt front.
Please wear your old shirt.
to shake because you are cold or frightened
She shivered with cold.
The poor dog - it's shivering!
She was shivering not only because of the cold, but also because she had no idea what she was going to tell him.
to make you feel afraid or excited
The sound of his voice sent shivers down my spine.
Simply looking at her sent shivers down his spine - there was the love of his life, the dearest woman on good old Earth, that he's never met before.
a big, unpleasant surprise
We got a nasty shock when he gave us the bill.
Her death came as a terrible shock to him.
They are still in shock from the accident.
I was in shock. I read the letter again and again, the last part of the text said 'Don't forget'.
a sudden, painful feeling that you get when electricity flows through your body
I got a bad shock from the plug.
When their eyes met each others, both sensed some kind of electric shock, and they knew they were made for each other.
a sudden movement caused by an explosion, accident, etc.
Further shocks have been felt in the area today.
to surprise and upset someone
The advertisements were designed to shock - that was the whole point of the campaign.
I think it shocks him to hear women talking about sex.
The news of the accident shocked the family deeply.
They hardly could believe it, although that American woman always wants to shock them...
very surprised and upset
After his announcement, there was shocked silence.
We were shocked to see smoke pouring out of the roof.
I was surprised and shocked.
offensive, upsetting or immoral
The sex scenes in the book were considered very shocking at the time when it was published.
There are few crimes more truly shocking than the murder or abuse of children.
The news was shocking but at the same time this fact will change our life.
a strong covering for the foot, often made of leather
flat/high-heeled shoes
gym/tennis shoes
He put on/took off his new pair of shoes.
Hurry and do up/lace up your shoes.
a shoe shop
I go every day to the shopping centre that sells food, clothes, shoes and different articles.
to injure or kill a person or animal by firing a bullet from a gun at them
If he's not armed, don't shoot.
The kids were shooting arrows at a target.
She was shot three times in the head.
A policeman was shot dead in the city centre last night.
The troops were told to shoot to kill.
We really had a good time, but when we were coming back home a man, whose a face I couldn't see, shot Ana and she fell down on the street.
to try to score points in sports such as football by hitting, kicking, or throwing the ball towards the goal
He shot from the middle of the field and still managed to score.
After I shot my first goal for this team they started to talk to me.
to use a camera to record a film or take a photograph
We shot four reels of film in Egypt.
The film was shot on location in Southern India.
Britney's was shot in a studio and she, hypothetically, was on Mars.
to move somewhere very quickly
She shot across the road without looking.
She shot past me several metres before the finishing line.
when a gun is fired, or when someone is injured or killed by a bullet from a gun
We heard some shooting in the night.
There have been a number of shootings in the capital this week.
He liked shooting very much and once he went into the forest he didn't come back.
a building or part of a building where you can buy things
a clothes/music shop
I need to go to the shops - I've got no food in the house.
The town is little but is wonderful, one day per week I go to the shop.
to buy things in shops
I like to shop at Harrods for clothes.
If I'm just shopping for food, I tend to go to the local supermarket.
I'd like to go out with you to shop for clothes.
someone whose job is selling things in a shop
She works as a shop assistant.
It can help me to get a job as a shop assistant.
someone who owns or manages a small shop
Local shopkeepers say business is good at the moment.
One of the major disadvantages is that the shopkeepers would have to work until midnight or perhaps on bank holidays.
the activity of buying things from shops
The store is open for late night shopping on Wednesdays.
I'm going shopping this afternoon.
My granddaughter does my weekly shopping for me.
Christmas shopping
She likes to go shopping with a friend.
goods which you have bought from shops, especially food
She had so many bags of shopping that she could hardly carry them.
I forgot my shopping list.
Hi Sam I need your help. I have a few things to buy and I need your bicycle to carry all the shopping.
the area of land along the edge of the sea or a lake
You can walk for miles along the shore.
The boat was about a mile from/off (the) shore when the engine suddenly died.
We were on the fourth floor, where you can see the sea shore and also the mountains behind.
small in length, distance or height
a short skirt
Her hair is much shorter than it used to be.
It's only a short walk to the station.
I'm quite short but my brother's very tall.
And also I don't like to wear short skirts and blouses in college class time.
continuing for a small amount of time
a short film/visit
He's grown so much in such a short time.
I work much better if I take a short break every hour or so.
It's a short time but we are very busy because we do many exercises.
A short book or other piece of writing has few pages or words.
a short email/letter
It's a very short book - you'll read it in an hour.
Dear Sue This is a short note to tell you that I have a new house.
to not have enough of something
to be short of space/time
We're a bit short of coffee - I must get some more.
Because I was short of money, I said yes.
describes a name that is used as a shorter form of a name
Her name's Jo - it's short for Josephine.
Her name's Josephine, or Jo for short.
There is even a strange disease called Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS for short).
only a short time before something happens
I had to give a speech at very short notice.
The fact that the speech by the famous actor was cancelled at short notice was disappointing.
in a few words
In short, we need more staff.
In short, ancient Chinese poems, mainly from the Jang Dynasty, constitute the background for Chinese culture and set a touchstone for judgement in our life.
to mention only the final result or point of something without going into other details
To cut a long story short, he never played baseball again.
Well, to cut a long story short, let's say tuition yes, facilities no.
to have to stop doing something before it is finished
They had to cut the holiday short when her mother was taken ill.
to not reach a particular level, but only by a small amount
Sales for the first half of this year fell just short of the target.
Furthermore, it cannot be denied that public transport falls short of the target set during the planning process.
to fail to achieve something
His behaviour falls short of what we expect.
She just fell short of the grades she needed.
This routine was really wearing me out, but, I didn't want to fall short of my parents' expectations.
to almost do something but decide not to do it
She stopped short of accusing him of lying.
when there is not enough of something
There's a shortage of food and shelter in the refugee camps.
The long hot summer has led to serious water shortages.
Due to a shortage of teachers in summer I can only take holiday in July.
a fault
I like him despite his shortcomings.
However, there were a few shortcomings I would like to mention.
to become shorter or to make something shorter
Smoking shortens your life.
Maybe we could shorten the free day to half a day and make use of the other half to bring them out for some sightseeing and familiarisation.
a short time after or before something
I got home at midnight and James arrived shortly afterwards.
Shortly after you left, a man came into the office looking for you.
Shortly afterwards, the door bell rang.
soon
We will shortly be arriving in King's Cross Station.
I look forward to hearing from you shortly.
a very short pair of trousers that stop above the knees
tennis shorts
She put on a pair of shorts and a T-shirt.
Why don't you wear your old T-shirt with some faded jeans or shorts?
not able to see far without wearing glasses
I'm very short-sighted.
He's awfully short-sighted, almost as blind as a bat, he's extremely fat and suffers from asthma.
not thinking enough about how an action will affect the future
a short-sighted policy
In the long run, this short-sighted view of some of themedia will result in a total lack of their credibility.
lasting a short time, or relating to a short period of time
short-term memory
a short-term weather forecast
Setting up restricted areas for animals is a nice idea, but due to the overall pollution, it is only a short-term solution.
over a period of time that only continues for a short way into the future
We need to save money in the short term.
You should think in the long term and you shouldn't try to achieve all your goals in the short term.
when a bullet is fired from a gun
He fired four shots at the car as it drove off.
Suddenly he heard a shot and the lights went out.
when someone tries to score points in sports such as football by hitting or throwing the ball
And that was a great shot by Lineker!
Nadal's forehand shot down the line won him the match.
I enjoy this sport because it forces me to improve my self control when playing: if I miss a shot, I have to stay very calm because it's the best way to achieve the next shot.
a photograph
I got/took some really good shots of the harbour at sunset.
A few months ago I had the chance to work abroad and see some of the Middle Eastern countries, where I took a lot of good shots.
used to give advice
I think you should see a doctor.
If you're annoyed with him, you should tell him.
You should change trains at Peterborough if you're going to Newcastle.
You should wear old clothes because we will get dirty.
used to say or ask what is the correct or best thing to do
"Should I apologize to him?"
Where should we meet tonight?
There should be an investigation into the cause of the disaster.
I should have written to her but I haven't had any time.
It's getting cold in here. Should I turn the heat up?
Should I call the police?
used to say that you expect something to be true or that you expect something to happen
My dry cleaning should be ready this afternoon.
If you follow these directions, you shouldn’t have any trouble finding our house.
I wonder what's happened to Annie. She should be here by now.
That should be enough food for five people.
I have invited all his friends, so we should be 28 people.
used to ask or give the reason for something, especially when you are surprised or angry about it
He wants me to give him my old car, but why should I?
Why shouldn't she get a new car if she wants one?
And personally I say "why should I read something in a book which I can watch on TV?"
one of the two parts of your body where your arms join your neck
I rested my head on her shoulder.
Then she put her arm round my shoulder and gave me a kiss.
She glanced nervously over her shoulder to make sure no one else was listening.
The name of the movie was Ghost ship. It was a horror movie but it was so boring that she slept on my shoulder.
someone who gives you sympathy when you are upset
I always had a shoulder to cry on.
I am always there for her and I know I will always have a shoulder to cry on.
to blame other people for something bad that has happened to you and continue to feel angry about it
She's always had a real chip on her shoulder because she didn't go to university.
I suppose that I have a chip on my shoulder!
to say something very loudly
"Look out!" she shouted.
I was angry and I shouted at him.
I shouted out her name but she didn't hear me.
I heard them shouting for help, but there was nothing I could do.
There's no need to shout, I can hear perfectly well.
He shouted from the bottom of the garden that he'd be finished in about half an hour.
Last night I think that I left my jacket at your house. If you don't give it to me, my mum will shout at me.
when you say something very loudly or make a very loud sound with your voice
He heard an angry shout.
shouts of anger
The only noise we could hear was the shouts of the heroes fighting with terrible monsters coming from space...
to let someone look at something
I must show you this new book I've just bought.
You ought to show that rash to your doctor.
Why won't you show me what you've got in your hand?
The secretly-filmed video shows the prince and princess kissing.
These photographs show the effects of the chemical on the trees.
He began to show signs of recovery.
I don't like showing my I.D. card every morning.
to give information in a book, on a website, on a piece of equipment, etc.
The pictures show two types of holiday. Talk to your partner about which you would prefer and why.
The right-hand dial shows the temperature, and the left-hand one shows the air pressure.
On this map, urban areas are shown in grey.
The latest crime figures show a sharp rise in burglaries.
Secondly, I'd like to tell you that the website is good, but it does not provide all the information we need, as it only shows the times of the films for that day and they usually change at the weekends.
to teach someone how to do something by explaining it or by doing it yourself while they watch
She showed me how to use the new computer system.
Have you shown him what to do?
Before the performance I introduced the spectators to their seats and then an instructor showed me how to operate the spotlights.
If numbers, results, facts, etc. show something, they prove that it is true.
Research shows that 40% of the programme's viewers are aged over 55.
Sales figures showed a significant increase last month.
She has shown herself (to be) a highly competent manager.
His diaries show him to have been an extremely insecure person.
The diaries show (that) he was very insecure.
Our research has shown (us) how little we know about this disease.
Experiments have even shown some astonishing results, that apes for example have the same abilities as humans.
to express a feeling so that other people are able to notice it
He finds it difficult to show affection.
She showed enormous courage when she rescued him from the fire.
You should show your parents more respect/show more respect to your parents.
I think a face can show so much and some day I hope I could become a photographer.
to be easy or possible to see, or to make something easy or possible to see
The sadness really shows on her face.
Light-coloured carpets show the dirt.
Their hair was turning grey and their faces showed the first wrinkles.
a television or radio programme or a theatre performance
a radio/television/stage show
a quiz/game show
Why don't we go to London on Saturday and see a show?
We had a puppet show for Jamie's birthday party.
You can see lots of traditional shows there, it will be very interesting for you.
an event at which a group of similar things are brought together for the public to see
a fashion/flower show
There were some amazing new cars at the motor show.
They put on a show of his work at the National Museum of American Art.
I do not know if it is possible to make any changes, but we saw an ad in "Time Out" magazine last week about a fashion show which we would like to see.
being shown to the public
Her designs are currently on show at the Museum of Modern Art.
One of the facilities that really makes a difference is the Art Gallery, with its great exhibition on show, as well as the Art Library.
If you have or take a shower, you wash your whole body while standing under a flow of water.
I got up, had a shower and got dressed.
I have to wake up at 7.30 AM. I run to the bathroom to take a shower.
a piece of bathroom equipment that you stand under to wash your whole body
He likes to sing in the shower.
And there are showers and a sauna you will be able to use any time after the gym.
a short period of rain
You're soaked! Did you get caught in the shower?
There will be thundery/wintry showers over many parts of the country.
Well the weather was really good during the morning but there were some showers during the afternoon.
to wash standing under a shower
We all showered before breakfast.
Singing is a hobby of mine but unfortunately I can only do it when I'm showering or cleaning up my flat.
to give someone a lot of presents, praise, etc.
He showered her with expensive gifts.
She was showered with compliments after her performance.
As time passes the children start to see a pattern developing, every time that they request time or attention they are showered with expensive clothes or toys to compensate for the lack of it.
good at judging situations and making decisions which give you an advantage
a shrewd politician
a shrewd business plan
It was only much later that I realised what a shrewd investment on my parent's part this had been.
to become smaller, or to make something smaller
Your sweater will shrink if you wash it at too high a temperature.
The company's profits have shrunk from £5.5 million to £1.25 million.
After 5 seconds I started shrinking until I was as small as the smallest toe on my foot.
to move your shoulders up and down to show that you do not care about something or that you do not know something
I told him we weren't happy with it but he just shrugged his shoulders.
Martina flushed to the roots of her hair and shrugged her shoulders.
to shake, usually because you are thinking of something unpleasant
The sight of so much blood made him shudder.
She shuddered at the thought of kissing him.
She shuddered at the memory.
to close something, or to become closed
Please shut the gate.
I've got a surprise for you! Shut your eyes tightly and hold out your hand.
Mary shut her book and put it down on the table.
This window won't shut properly.
The doors shut by themselves.
When a shop, restaurant, etc. shuts, it stops serving customers and does not allow people to enter.
The shops shut at eight o'clock on Wednesday evenings.
closed
I suspected something was wrong when I noticed her curtains were still shut at lunchtime.
(closed) When a shop, restaurant, etc. is shut, it has stopped serving customers and does not allow people to enter it.
The post office will be shut now.
On the advertisement it also said you could visit the restaurant after the show, and that is what I did, but when I got there it was shut for no reason.
to not talk about something
If you don't keep your mouth shut, there'll be trouble.
She made every effort to keep her mouth shut but it disturbed her to be the only one to know the truth, apart from her brother.
a bus, train, plane, etc. which travels regularly between two places, usually a short distance
the London-Glasgow shuttle
There's a shuttle service between the airport and the city centre.
I am convinced that a centre with less traffic and more pedestrianised areas will attract more other people. Especially if there is a parking opportunity outside of the centre with well-organised shuttle buses to the centre.
not confident, especially about meeting or talking to new people
He was too shy to ask her to dance with him.
She gave a shy smile.
Children are often shy of/with people they don't know.
The deer were shy and hid behind some trees.
I was a little shy at first, but I ended up talking too much!
the state of being shy
When I met the Queen, I was overcome with shyness.
Some of them were encouraged by their work-fellows to overcome their initial shyness.
a sister or brother
I have three siblings.
I am also lucky to have a sibling, an older sister, who took great care of me when we were children.
ill
a sick child
My father has been off sick for a long time.
The old woman fell/took/was taken sick while she was away and had to come home.
Sarah called in/reported sick.
Everybody went except Natalie because she was sick.
feeling ill as if you are going to vomit
Lucy felt sick the morning after the party.
If you eat any more of that cake, you'll make yourself sick.
He said he felt sick and had a headache.
to vomit
She was sick after she ate too much chocolate.
I feel a little sick and I don't want to be sick in your lesson.
to be bored with or annoyed about something that has been happening for a long time
I'm sick of people telling me how to run my life.
Michael was sick of seeing the same story happen all over again.
cruel and unpleasant
He's got a sick mind.
a sick joke
It seems to us as if God had got a sick sense of humour.
when you are ill
There's a lot of sickness around this winter.
She's had three weeks off for sickness this year.
The simple joy and happiness will help you to feel in good shape and keep away any sickness.
one of the two parts that something would divide into if you drew a line down the middle
He likes to sleep on the right side of the bed.
In Britain, cars drive on the left side of the road.
There is no money on my mother's side (of the family).
I could just see Joan on the far/other side of the room.
Children came running from all sides.
It's an interesting place because the Lake has a road through which cars can go to the other side of the Lake.
a flat outer surface of an object, especially one that is not the top or the bottom
The names of ships are usually painted on their sides.
My room is at the side of the house.
Please write on one side of the paper only.
Canadian coins have a picture of the Queen's head on one side.
Please use the side entrance.
It cost 152 Euro. It's black with silver stripes on the sides.
an edge or border of something
A square has four sides.
There are trees on both sides of the road.
They were surrounded on every side by curious children.
We are going to paint one side of the room orange and the others white.
the area next to something
I have a small table at/by the side of my bed.
He stood at/by her side as she welcomed the guests one by one.
Linda is by my side right now and she asks me to send you a warm hug.
part of a situation that can be considered or dealt with separately
She looks after the financial side of things.
Finally, I think for me the most important thing is to enjoy life - don't be worried about little things and always find the funny side of each situation.
a part of someone's character
She has a very practical side.
In fact the film describes the actions of this politician, also saying something not very "Politically Correct", but true: he reveals that no one is always good, everyone has a dark hidden side.
If two things or people are side by side, they are next to each other.
We sat side by side on the sofa.
It is not rare to see two people walking side by side, both talking on the phone.
If something moves from side to side, it moves from left to right and back again repeatedly.
swinging from side to side
I began to understand it when I went to Kenya in 1986, because I had the wonderful chance to look at the animals in their natural surroundings, without being in a cage, walking nervously from side to side.
one of the people or groups who are arguing, fighting, or competing
Whose side is he on?
Whenever we argue he always takes Alice's side .
This is a war which neither side can win.
Don't be angry with me - I'm on your side.
I hope you'll be on my side.
a way of considering something, especially when there is disagreement about it
There are at least two sides to every question.
I've listened to your side of the story, but I still think you were wrong to do what you did.
This shows the other side of technology.
to find good things in a bad situation
Look on the bright side - no one was badly hurt.
I am quite self-confident and I usually look on the bright side, as I am not keen on pessimistic thoughts.
the players in a sports team
He's been selected for the national side.
Our side lost again on Saturday.
He also plays football for a local side regularly.
to not use or deal with something now, but keep it for a later time
She put the papers to one side, intending to read them later.
in addition to your main job
She does a bit of bar work on the side.
At work, they gave her the worst jobs to do. She knew she didn't have much choice but she still tried to find something else on the side.
the part of your family who are either your mother's relatives or your father's relatives
They tend to be tall on my mother's side of the family.
Both on my father's side as well as on my mother's side of the family we formed a close knit group.
the two areas of your body from under your arms to the tops of your legs
Stand with your arms by your sides.
She lay on her side.
If you have someone at/by your side, they support you and help you.
With Dan at my side, I felt I could do anything.
She really needed someone by her side, someone to lean on and share her worries.
another effect that a drug has on your body in addition to the main effect for which the doctor has given you the drug
Headaches are one side effect of this drug.
Now, we have come up with something called Phyto essence that is designed to overcome skin problems effectively without causing any harmful side effects.
an extra result of a situation, especially one that you did not plan or expect
One side effect of getting a new job is that I can cycle to work and I've lost a lot of weight.
They seem to neglect the growing rate of unemployment and its possible side effects.
in a direction to the left or right, not forwards or backwards
The fence is leaning sideways.
If you would move sideways to the left, I can get everyone in the picture.
Take two sideways steps.
Unaware of all the sideways glances and chatter that paused as she passed, she headed back towards the river.
to breathe out slowly and noisily, often because you are annoyed or unhappy
She sighed deeply and sat down.
"I wish he was here," she sighed.
Having solid ground beneath her feet again she sighed with relief for having survived this adventure.
the sound that is made when someone sighs
He read the letter and gave a deep sigh.
I entered the house with a deep sigh!
the ability to see
If your sight is poor, you should not drive a car.
The old woman has lost her sight.
She had lost her sight although doctors didn't know if it was forever.
places of interest, especially to visitors
We spent a fortnight in Rome looking at all the sights.
I have many plans, I want to show you all the remarkable sights in Georgia.
when you see someone or something
The sight of so much blood had shocked him.
The child laughed at the sight of the clockwork toy.
She hated/loathed the sight of her former husband.
Just think; drinking our cold beers against the sight of the pounding waves and feeling the wind on our faces.
the area that it is possible for you to see
You should always keep sight of your bags while you're at the airport.
I dare not let the children out of my sight in this park.
The police officer was hidden out of sight behind a tree.
The castle came into sight as we went round a bend in the road.
We're looking for a house which is within sight of the mountains.
Dear Editor, This morning when I opened my newspaper, my eyes caught sight of an article called "Failure of festival", and I read it.
when you first see or hear about something or someone
It may, at first sight, seem a surprising choice.
It was love at first sight!
Nowadays shopping is considered one of the most enjoyable activities, especially if you are a woman and you are out to buy clothes. At first sight it is, but shopping is not always enjoyable.
to forget about an important idea or fact because you are thinking too much about other, less important things
We mustn't lose sight of the original aims of this project.
Little do we realize that in the process we lose sight of the fundamentals, which in this case is the protection of our environment.
to decide to achieve something
She's set her sights on becoming a doctor.
This resemblance was the final silent argument that convinced Wormold to promise Milly the expensive and beautiful horse she had set her sights on.
to see something suddenly, often only for a short time
He caught sight of himself in the mirror.
All we could see were people bursting into tears when they caught sight of his coffin.
the activity of visiting places which are interesting because they are historical, famous, etc.
Did you do much sightseeing while you were in Paris?
I'd like to go sightseeing and eat Italian food.
a symbol or message in a public place which gives information or instructions
a road sign
a shop sign
And it is easy to get there, just follow the sign.
something which shows that something is happening or that it exists or is true
Flowers are the first sign of Spring.
His inability to handle the situation is a sure sign of weakness.
The fact that he's eating more is a sign that he's feeling better.
There's no sign of progress with the building work.
Billy's work at school has shown signs of improvement this year.
There is every sign that the worst is over.
The bride and the groom meet at the church because it's a bad sign if the groom sees the bride before the ceremony.
a movement you make to give someone information or tell them what to do
She pointed to her watch as a sign that it was getting late and she wanted to leave.
She made/gave a sign to her husband to stop talking.
The priest made the sign of the cross when he entered the church.
She looked at Paul and made a strange sign with her fingers.
a written or printed mark which has a standard meaning
+ and - are mathematical signs.
£ is the sign for the British pound.
If there is no sign of someone or something, you cannot see them.
By eight o'clock, there was still no sign of Janne.
She said she'd left the book on the table, but there's no sign of it.
He was supposed to come on Wednesday just like you told me but there was no sign of him.
to write your name on something to show that you wrote/painted, etc. it or to show that you agree to it
to sign a letter/form/cheque/contract/agreement
Sign here, please.
He signed his name at the end of the letter.
He signed himself 'Mark Taylor'.
She said the painting was by Picasso, but it wasn't signed.
It was signed "Fat Boy".
a movement, light, or sound which gives information, or tells people what to do
At a signal from their teacher, the children all held up their flags.
Don't move until I give the signal.
The firework was a signal that the festival had started.
The police officer gave us a signal to stop.
The signal for a race to start is often the firing of a gun.
The signal was given. We started side by side but soon I overtook him.
a series of light waves or sound waves which are sent to a radio, television, mobile phone, etc.
I can't get a phone signal here.
On the other hand you can face problems with signal transmission.
to make a movement which gives information or tells people what to do
He signalled left, and turned the lorry slowly.
He was signalling with a red flag.
She signalled for help.
She signalled to the cars behind that they were going the wrong way.
The children's mother signalled them to be quiet.
He signalled his trusty and mostly silent cameraman to follow him and decided to go underground.
your name written by yourself, always in the same way, usually to show that something has been written or agreed by you
Please put your signature in this box.
I thought it was a joke but when I saw the signature I knew it was for real.
the importance or meaning of something
I still don't understand the significance of his remark.
This is a development which has great economic significance for the region.
In spite of the progress achieved in promoting the social status of women, one should not overestimate the significance of these achievements to ordinary women's careers.
important or noticeable
There has been a significant increase in the number of women students in recent years.
These measures will save a significant amount of money.
The talks between the USA and Russia were very significant for the relationship between the two countries.
One of the most significant inventions is the computer.
in a way that is easy to see or by a large amount
My piano playing has improved significantly since I've had a new teacher.
Also, with today's machines, factories have significantly increased their production.
a sign by the side of the road that gives information about routes and distances
Look out for the signpost to the airport.
There were no signposts and there was no one to ask where he could find a place to stay.
when there is no sound
The three men ate in silence.
A loud crash of thunder broke the silence of the night.
I suppose that you want to relax on your holiday and so I suggest you visit the Alps - some beautiful countryside where you can relax, walk and enjoy the silence and nature.
a period of time in which there is complete quiet or no speaking
There were long silences during the discussion.
The progress of the story is very slow, but the author is describing hard conditions, hard characters and long silences, which is quite typical of his way of writing.
a period of time when someone says nothing about a particular subject or when someone does not communicate with someone at all
She ended her silence yesterday and spoke to a TV reporter about the affair.
I took his long silence to mean that I had offended him.
How dared he call her after such a long silence and order her what to do?
without any sound
The empty house was completely silent.
The countryside, like Chianti, is peaceful and silent.
without talking
She whispered a silent prayer that her wounded brother would not die.
The police officer told the criminal that he had the right to remain silent.
The minister was silent on/about his plans for the future.
Arthur has always been the strong, silent type.
When they were there, Aunt Patience was obliged by her husband to go to her room and remain silent.
without making any noise
She wept silently as she read the letter.
He silently vowed to take revenge.
After waiting silently for two minutes, she dropped the phone.
a type of cloth which is light and smooth
a silk dress
a silk shirt
Normally, I would prefer my blouses to be made of cotton or silk, as these materials make me feel comfortable.
showing little thought or judgment
Don't do that, you silly boy!
a silly mistake
It was silly of you to go out in the sun without a hat.
I feel silly in this dress.
They had some very silly games.
small and not important
She gets upset over such silly things.
People are so worried about silly things, about how to make money or how to be popular and they forget about what really matters.
a valuable, shiny, grey-white metal used to make coins and jewellery
We gave Alison and Tom a dish made of solid silver as a wedding present.
It was a beautiful ring, it was made of silver with a diamond on it.
made of silver, or of the colour of silver
a silver ring
My grandmother has silver hair.
I got beautiful presents, but my favourite is a silver ring.
If something or someone is similar to another thing or person, they have many things the same, although they are not exactly the same.
My father and I have similar views on politics.
I bought some new shoes which are very similar to a pair I had before.
Paul is very similar in appearance to his brother.
I can understand how you are feeling because at our age, every teenager has similar problems.
when two things or people are similar, or a way in which they are similar
I can see the similarity between you and your mother.
The book bears several striking similarities to last year's bestseller.
Another similarity between the two was their appearance.
in a similar way
The children were similarly dressed.
Cars must stop at red traffic lights; similarly, bicycles should stop too.
Business people would like to have a car park in the city centre, whereas most residents are against it, mainly because of the horrible noise made by cars. Similarly, some students, who are concerned about pollution, prefer the car park to be on the outskirts of the city.
easy to do or to understand
The instructions were written in simple English.
It's simple to find our house.
I want an explanation, but keep/make it simple.
I've bought a Sony mobile phone. It's very simple and really easy to use.
plain or not complicated
a simple life
a simple black dress
We had a simple meal of bread and cheese.
You can eat simple food and drink good local wine.
used to describe the one important fact, truth, etc.
We didn't go swimming for the simple reason that the water was too cold.
I'm very fond of working with animals, and the simple reason is that I'm planning to become a vet.
the quality of being simple
The advantage of the plan is its simplicity.
The examination was simplicity itself.
I admire the simplicity of her designs.
Video facilities are rated as quite good by the students, and computer programmes have gained almost everybody's compliments for their simplicity and efficacy.
the process of making something more simple
I think these rules need some simplification.
It might be a simplification and an exaggeration, but as the word says: "The road of excess leads to the tower of wisdom", and although the idea expresses itself in crude terms, I do think there is some truth to it.
to make something less complicated and therefore easier to do or understand
the new, simplified tax system
He tried to simplify the story for the younger audience.
The technology has probably simplified life in a way that no one could believe was possible about 20 years ago.
used to emphasize what you are saying
We simply don't have the time.
You look simply beautiful in that dress.
The hunger in parts of Africa is terrible - there's (quite) simply no other word for it.
It's said that most of the centre's sports facilities are very expensive, but that is simply not true.
only
A lot of people miss out on this opportunity simply because they don't know about it.
I am very interested in fashion, simply because it is a style, an attitude, a way of life.
in a way which is not complicated or difficult to understand
He explained it as simply as he could, but the class still didn't understand.
Try to organize your work as simply as possible.
a model of something that can be used to teach someone how to do something, or the process of making such a model
Students can study a computer simulation of these atomic processes.
Civilisation is one of the best-selling simulation games of all time.
If two or more things are simultaneous, they happen or exist at the same time.
simultaneous translation
The people I most admire are simultaneous interpreters.
at the same time
Two children answered the teacher's question simultaneously.
The floods of information pour towards you and go through your brain simultaneously.
something which is against the rules of a religion
the sin of greed/pride
to commit a sin
Nurses and doctors in white or green overalls, smells of drugs and sweating patients, moans of pain during the night, all that was like sending me to hell for a sin I knew nothing about.
something that you should not do because it is morally wrong
You've only got one life and it's a sin to waste it.
It would be a sin not to grasp the opportunities one is given.
from a time in the past until a later time or until now
England have not won the World Cup in football since 1966.
It was the hottest October since records began.
from a time in the past until a later time or until now
He's been much happier since he started his new job.
I've known Tim since he was seven.
I was really surprised when I read the e-mail because I haven't heard from you since I visited you last year.
because
Since we've got a few minutes to wait for the train, let's have a cup of coffee.
Since my mother has surgery tomorrow, I will not be able to come to your class.
from a time in the past until a later time or until now
Emma went to work in New York a year ago, and we haven't seen her since.
He started working for the company when he left school, and has been there ever since.
I've long since forgotten any Latin I ever learned.
It was my grandmother who introduced me to teddy bears and she wanted me to love them as she did. When she died, I got all her bears and have been taking care of them ever since.
honest and saying or showing what you really feel or believe
He seems to be sincere.
During these years I have also found her to be honest, sincere, hard-working and imaginative.
used to add emphasis when you are expressing a feeling
The family wishes to express their sincere thanks to all the staff at the hospital.
Again, sincere gratitude for your kind work.
used at the end of formal letters where you know the name of the person you are writing to
Yours sincerely, Emma Clarke.
I'm going to ask Tom for the work I will miss. Yours sincerely, EMPHASIS
in a sincere way
I sincerely hope that this never happens again.
I sincerely hope that you improve your services.
the quality of being sincere
There was no doubting his sincerity.
His sincerity shines through from his poems and it still moves us.
to make musical sounds with your voice
The children sang two songs by Schubert at the school concert.
We were woken early by the sound of the birds singing.
Your grandmother would like you to sing for/to her.
Will you sing us a song/sing a song to us?
She sang her baby to sleep every night.
We sang songs and danced.
a person who sings, especially as a job
Kiri Te Kanawa is a famous singer from New Zealand.
My favourite singer is Aaron Carter.
the activity of singing
She's having singing lessons.
My hobbies are singing, dancing, skating, basketball and so on.
not married, or not having a romantic relationship with someone
a single woman/man/person
He's been single for so long now, I don't think he'll ever marry.
He's 25 years old and single.
for only one person
a single bed
a single room
I am selling a single bed.
a single ticket takes you to a place, but not back again
I've only got a single ticket.
Suddenly I was asked to show my single ticket.
someone who has a child or children, but no wife, husband or partner living with them
Many single parents find it difficult to get a job.
The number of single-parent families dependent on the state has risen enormously in recent years.
She's a single parent, with 3 children from Australia but she's gorgeous.
used to emphasize that you are talking about each one of a group or series
I call him every single day.
The decision affected every single one of them.
But we used to play together every single day!
only one
There was a single light in the corner of the room.
Not a single person offered to help her.
You haven't been listening to a single word I've been saying.
The night was calm and not a single sound was disturbing her.
a ticket for a journey that is from one place to another but not back again
Could I have a single to Edinburgh, please?
The singular form of a word is used to talk about one person or thing. For example 'woman' is the singular form of 'women'.
a singular ending/form/noun/verb
The word 'woman' is singular.
a word or form that shows that there is only one of something
The singular of 'children' is 'child'.
The word 'teeth' is plural - in the singular it's 'tooth'.
to go down or make something go down below the surface of water or a soft substance and not come back up
The Titanic was a passenger ship which sank to the bottom of the ocean in 1912.
The legs of the garden chair sank into the soft ground.
Enemy aircraft sank two battleships.
The dog sank its teeth into the ball and ran off with it.
They were travelling on the very big ship called "Titanic", and the ship sank.
to move or make something move to a lower position or level
The sun glowed red as it sank slowly below the horizon.
Student numbers have sunk considerably this year.
Dora's face grew pale and she sank into a chair.
a bowl that is fixed to the wall in a kitchen or bathroom in which you wash dishes, your hands, etc.
a bathroom/kitchen sink
I put my watch on the sink in the bathroom.
to drink, taking only a small amount at a time
She sipped her champagne.
The reasons for my choice are far from being profound: maybe it is only the desire of going back to a time when women ... could spend all the time brushing their hair or sipping tea, without feeling guilty for wasting their time.
a small amount of drink taken into the mouth
He took a sip of his coffee and then continued.
It was a regular afternoon, like all the other summer afternoons in the city, when you gasp for breath and are willing to reveal the secrets of your best friends for a sip of water.
used as a formal and polite way of speaking to a man, especially one who you are providing a service to or who is in a position of authority
Would you like to see the menu, sir?
"Did you hear what I said?" "Yes, sir."
Suddenly, the man with the hat, sunglasses, and mask came to me and said "sir, what is your name?"
a way of beginning a formal letter to a man whose name you do not know
Dear Sir, I am writing to...
Dear Sir or Madam, With reference to your advertisement in the Wall Street Journal ...
a piece of equipment that makes a loud sound as a warning
a police siren
Almost immediately he heard the police sirens wailing and saw two officers spring from the panda car.
a girl or woman who has the same parents as another person
Sophie and Emily are sisters.
Emily is Sophie's younger/little/older/big sister.
I was there with my parents and sister.
a woman married to your brother, or the sister of your husband or wife
My sister-in-law is a great cook.
So, I and a sister-in-law had to stay with our little sons without any entertainment at the hotel.
to be in a position with the weight of your body on your bottom and the top part of your body up, for example, on a chair
Emma was sitting on a stool.
The children sat at the table by the window.
We sat by the river and had a picnic.
It is so boring, because we just sit and listen to the teachers.
to move your body into a sitting position after you have been standing
She came over and sat beside me.
She sat down on the grass.
After one or two hours dancing, I had to sit down and drink.
to take a test or exam
I had to sit an exam the next day.
Visiting you in July is just perfect because schools will have closed and I will have already sat my exams at the English school.
to make someone sit somewhere
She sat me down and told me the bad news.
I thought we'd sit the children at the end of the table.
I wasn't prepared at all when my parents sat me down to tell me that my mother had been diagnosed with cancer, more specifically, a brain tumour.
a website
He visits a lot of music sites.
You can visit our site on the Internet or phone us on 332679.
a place where something is, was, or will be built, or where something happened, is happening, or will happen
a building site
The council haven't yet chosen the site for the new hospital.
This is the site of the accident.
I work as a civil engineer on a site.
inside a factory, office building, etc.
There are two restaurants on site.
They provide on-site childcare facilities for employees.
A small period of training on site is required a few days before the beginning of the job itself and how many interesting people you will meet!
the room in a house where people sit to relax and, for example, watch television
We usually eat in the sitting room.
It is probably in the sitting room on the table.
to be in a particular place
The hotel is situated by Lake Garda.
The restaurant is situated beside a river to make it even more wonderful.
the set of things that are happening and the conditions that exist at a particular time and place
the economic/political situation
Her news put me in a difficult situation.
"Would you get involved in a fight?" "It would depend on the situation."
I'll worry about it if/when/as the situation arises.
It was a weird situation.
the number 6
Look for a bus with a number six on the front of it.
"How many grandchildren do you have now?" "I've got six (grandchildren)."
My place has six rooms.
the number 16
fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen
We've got sixteen (people) coming for lunch.
Hi! My name is Ian and I'm sixteen years old.
6th written as a word
I have to return my library books on the sixth (of July).
Jesse came in sixth in the 100 meters.
The room I like best is room 8 because it's on the sixth floor and I can see many people in the street.
the number 60
fifty, sixty, seventy
There are sixty (people) coming to the wedding.
We were about sixty people, I can't remember their names.
to be aged between 60 and 69
I took up yoga in my sixties.
She is in her middle sixties, but still very active and lively.
the years from 1960 through 1969
I still love all that music from the sixties.
Another problem is the demolition of old houses that took place during the sixties.
how large or small something or someone is
The size of those trees is amazing.
What is the size of that window?
The field was about four hectares in size.
He had a lump on his head the size of an egg.
I finally bought a mobile phone, it's very nice! I like the size, it's very small!
one of the different measurements in which things, for example clothes, food containers, etc. are made
a size 14 dress
Do these shoes come in children's sizes?
What size are you?/What is your size?/What size do you take?
I have a beautiful blue and white coat to sell, size 16.
many different types of people or things
We saw people there of all shapes and sizes.
Personal Challenges come in all shapes and sizes.
a boot with a metal part on the bottom, used for moving across ice, or a boot with wheels on the bottom used for moving across the ground
a pair of ice skates
a pair of inline/roller skates
I want to sell a pair of skates that I bought two years ago.
to move using skates
The ice on the river is thick enough to skate on/across/over.
We skated for two or three hours.
a board with wheels on the bottom, that you stand on and move forward by pushing one foot on the ground
I've got a new skateboard.
I got a video game and a beautiful skateboard.
the activity of moving using a skateboard
We're going skateboarding at the park later.
My hobbies are skateboarding and listening to the radio.
the activity or sport of moving on skates
ice/inline/roller skating
Shall we go skating tomorrow?
I like playing volleyball, reading books and going skating with my friends.
the structure made of all the bones in the body of a person or animal
We found an old sheep skeleton up on the cliffs.
Her long illness reduced her to a skeleton.
In the USA, they enjoy dressing up in costumes, most of the time as skeletons, witches or ghosts.
the smallest number of people that you need to keep an organization working
The Red Cross has withdrawn all but a skeleton staff from the country.
The life-rescuing services are on call and a skeleton staff remains in all hospitals.
a picture that you draw quickly and with few details
He did a quick sketch of the cat.
Picasso would start with a lot of preliminary sketches and then go on to paint his final picture where the main figures - a woman and a horse - are screaming in despair.
a short piece of acting about a funny situation
They wrote most of their sketches themselves.
It's a partly live show, but it also contains earlier recorded "sketches", often with funny stunts.
a short description of something without many details
He gave us a quick sketch of the situation.
Having seen the call for new subject proposals I'm sending you a preliminary sketch of two new courses.
to give a short description with few details, especially of an idea or plan
I've sketched out some ideas for my new book.
The way I would bring up my own children, right now I'm not too sure if I'm ever going to have one or even more, wouldn't differ a great deal from the way I sketched out at the beginning.
one of a pair of long, thin pieces of wood or plastic that you wear on the bottom of boots to move over snow
a pair of skis
ski boots
a ski club/resort
We stayed one week in a chalet near the ski resort.
to move over snow on skis
He skied down the hill.
There're two very good places where we can ski, and they aren't crowded!
the sport of moving over snow on skis
I'm going skiing at Easter.
Dear Jim, I have left my coat at your house. It's important because I'm going skiing tomorrow!
good at doing something
a skilful artist
Police officers have to be skilful drivers.
Indeed they were very popular, because five very skilful and talented teachers did the courses.
done or made very well
skilful use of language
I do hope that my skilful and smart notes will help you to judge the situation properly.
an ability to do an activity or job well, especially because you have practised it
Ruth had/possessed great writing skills.
I have no skill at/in sewing.
I want to improve my listening and speaking skills.
having the abilities needed to do an activity or job well
a highly skilled photographer
My mother is very skilled at/in dressmaking.
I know you need some skilled people to build the boat and therefore I hope I can join your club to help you.
the outer layer of a person or animal's body
dark/fair skin
skin cancer
Babies have soft skins.
She's got blue eyes and fair skin.
the outer layer of a fruit or vegetable
a banana/potato skin
Unfortunately, I didn't notice the banana skin, which was lying on the pavement next to me.
to not do something that you usually do or that you should do
I think I'll skip lunch today - I'm not very hungry.
He felt a bit sick and so he skipped the meal.
to avoid reading or talking about something by starting to read or talk about the next thing instead
I usually skip the boring bits.
This sharpens your translating skills and your vocabulary (since you can't just skip words you don't understand even if you get the general idea).
a piece of clothing for women and girls that hangs from the waist and does not have legs
a long/short skirt
And also I don't like to wear short skirts and blouses in college class time.
the part of your head that is made of bone and which protects your brain
I fell and cracked my skull.
When she hit his head, like a batsman hitting a six, his skull crushed with an awfully crunchy noise.
the area above the Earth, in which clouds, the sun, etc. can be seen
a blue/cloudy/dark sky
Can you see those birds high up in the sky?
We looked up at/into the sky at the sound of the plane.
I will use white and light blue, like the sky.
to close with great force, or to make something close with great force
The wind made the door/window slam (shut).
Close the door carefully, don't slam it.
Once the door slammed behind her, the tears came...
to put something somewhere or to hit something with great force
She slammed the phone down.
He slammed the on when a child ran in front of his car.
He stopped suddenly, and the car behind slammed into him.
Then he slammed down the receiver.
informal language, often language that is only used by people who belong to a particular group
prison slang
That's because communication with natives and not experienced English teachers will probably make you enrich your idiomatic and slang vocabulary rather than your academic vocabulary.
to hit someone with the flat, inside part of your hand
She slapped his face.
She slapped him across the face.
His friends slapped him on the back when he said he was getting married .
She shouted and slapped my face.
something someone does that insults or upsets you
After all that hard work, losing my job was a real slap in the face.
My father noticed that and decided it was high time to take me down a peg or two. He used to work as a volunteer in hospital for children dying for cancer. One day, he took me there. It was like a slap in the face - suddenly I saw a different world. It was a bleak world, without smiles and happy faces.
a hit with the flat, inside part of your hand
She gave the child a slap on the leg.
I do not think that punches and slaps mean love at all.
a mark (/) used in writing to separate words or numbers, often to show a choice of connection
You often write a slash between alternatives, for example, "and/or".
Visit our website, bbc.co.uk/radio4.
when a lot of people or animals are killed in a cruel way
They were sickened by the slaughter they witnessed.
And I think this change must be appreciated both because of the fact that a vegetarian diet is healthier and because it prevents the slaughter of animals.
someone who is owned by someone else and has to work for them
I'm tired of being treated like a slave!
I know you're lazy sometimes but don't worry you don't have to work like a slave.
the system of owning slaves, or the condition of being a slave
They campaigned for the abolition of slavery.
From the condition of slavery, the Greeks passed to life in a fully developed and democratic country.
to be in the state of rest when your eyes are closed, your body is not active, and your mind is unconscious
Sleep well!
I couldn't sleep because of all the noise next door.
I slept late on Sunday morning.
How can Jayne sleep at night with all those worries on her mind!
I watch television, I read magazines or I sleep.
to wait until the next day before making a decision about something important so that you can think about it carefully
I didn't know what to say to Laura, so I decided to sleep on it.
to not have any sleep
I was so excited last night - I didn't sleep a wink.
Nevertheless, due to the fact that I hadn't slept a wink the previous night, I began to fall asleep.
the resting state in which the body is not active and the mind is unconscious
I must get some sleep - I'm exhausted.
After that, I was very tired and went home to get some sleep.
to succeed in sleeping
I couldn't get to sleep at all last night for worrying.
You'll find that your baby usually goes to sleep after a feed.
Since it's quite hot here I bought a fan, I have to use it at night otherwise I can't get to sleep.
a period of sleeping
You must be tired after all that driving - why don't you have a little sleep?
He fell into a deep sleep.
I didn't knew what to do, so I went for a sleep.
to worry about something
I know she's angry with me, but I'm not losing any sleep over it.
There was just one house, a magnificent mansion behind a high fence, that bothered me a bit. No-one from there came to meet me. But in the hassle of the first few weeks I was simply too busy to lose any sleep over it.
a night when you are not able to sleep
He'd spent a sleepless night worrying about his exam.
Most of the rooms we stayed in did not have air-conditioning, which caused many sleepless nights to the majority of us due to the intense heat.
feeling tired and wanting to go to sleep
The heat had made me sleepy.
I felt sleepy during the film, but Yoshie enjoyed it.
quiet and with little activity
a sleepy little town
I don't know much about it because it never got into my remote, sleepy village.
the part of a jacket, shirt, etc. that covers your arm
short/long sleeves
The sleeves are too long for me.
You'd better roll your sleeves up or you'll get them dirty.
I like the rap trousers and T-shirts with long sleeves.
to have a secret plan
They were worried he might have another nasty surprise up his sleeve.
In addition, I would never hit them - parents should always have something up their sleeve to find a humane solution.
thin in an attractive way
a slender woman with long, red hair
On stage then appeared what I had dreamed of being, when I was a little girl, a princess-looking creature with long black hair, slender body and slow movements.
a flat piece of food that has been cut from a larger piece
a slice of bread/cake
cucumber/lemon slices
Would you like another slice of ham/beef?
And I kept a slice of the cake for you!
a part of something, such as an amount of money
We agreed before we did the deal that we'd both take an equal slice of the profit.
The film presents us with a fascinating slice of history.
It difficult to know that nowdays we can kill each other only for an idea or for a slice of land.
to cut something into thin, flat pieces
Slice the mushrooms thinly and fry in butter.
Could you slice me a very thin piece of cake/slice a very thin piece of cake for me?
to move smoothly over a surface, or to make something move smoothly over a surface
He likes sliding on the ice.
He slid the letter into his pocket.
We've got one of those doors in the kitchen that slides open.
I slid down the slope and when trying to brake, the brakes locked.
small and not important
a slight improvement
We're having a slight problem with our computer system.
I haven't the slightest idea what he's talking about.
To conclude, today's way of eating is not really healthy, but we can notice a slight improvement.
a little
She's slightly taller than her sister.
I'm slightly upset she forgot my birthday.
Even at night, it will take you only slightly longer to get from A to B, provided you are near the city centre.
Someone who is slim is thin in an attractive way.
slim hips/legs
She's got a lovely slim figure.
She is tall and slim.
small and not as much as you would like
There's a slim chance he'll succeed.
to slide by accident and fall or almost fall
She slipped on the ice.
Careful you don't slip - there's water on the floor.
The razor slipped while he was shaving and he cut himself.
But then I slipped and fell down.
to put something somewhere quickly or secretly
She slipped the letter into an envelope and sealed it.
to go somewhere quietly or quickly
I'll slip out of the room if I get bored.
My mission was to slip out of the ballroom and take pictures of the papers about the plans of Britain regarding the war.
to slide out of the correct position
The photo had slipped from the frame.
She said, "I got a letter from the hotel today. The diary was in it. It had slipped between the beds."
If something slips your mind, you forget about it.
I meant to tell her Nigel had phoned, but it completely slipped my mind.
There was something but it slipped my mind before I reached it.
smooth and wet and difficult to hold or walk on
Be careful - the floor's slippery.
We arrived at the mountain at seven o'clock in the morning and because the previous night it had been raining, the rocks were slippery.
a short phrase that is easy to remember and is used to make people notice something
an advertising slogan
Our slogan is "BE CREATIVE".
a surface or piece of land that is high at one end and low at the other
There's a steep slope to climb before we're at the top.
a mountain/ski slope
During the daytime, we all went up to the slopes for skiing.
a long, narrow hole that you put something into, especially money
Put the coin in the slot.
Instead of inserting a coin, you put your card in a slot and then dial the number.
a period of time that you allow for something in a plan
The programme is being moved to a later slot.
Customers will also be able to choose the date and even the time slot for the delivery.
doing, moving or happening without much speed
a slow runner/driver/reader
She's a very slow eater.
We're making slow but steady progress with the decorating.
I know about the concert and I like slow music.
not exciting
I find his films very slow.
The beginning of the movie is slow, but the last hour is incredible.
to take a long time to do something
The government has been slow to react to the problem.
The ambulance was very slow in coming.
But in the Third World, where birth rates are explosive, the governments, and even more the people, are slow to grasp the problem and act on it.
to become slower or to make something become slower
Traffic slows to a crawl during rush hour.
The pilot was asked to slow his approach to the runway.
Having said that, I do agree that it is unavoidable to have increasing prices on petrol, in an attempt to slow the rate of depletion of this resource that is not unlimited.
at a slow speed
Could you please speak more slowly?
He walked slowly across the room.
I promised my mum I would try to drive more slowly when we go somewhere together.
little in size or amount
They live in a small apartment near Times Square.
We teach the children in small groups.
a small dog/house/car
I'd rather live in a small town than a big city.
Would you like a large or small cola with your burger?
That jacket's too small for you.
Only a small number of applicants are successful.
It is a small village where my grandad lives.
A small child is very young.
Looking after small children can be very tiring.
I live with my wife and my small daughter who is 2 years old.
not important or serious
a small mistake
I have one small problem. Next Wednesday 17th July I have an appointment with the doctor so I'm sorry I can't visit you then.
having a clean, tidy and stylish appearance
Guy looks very smart in his new suit, doesn't he?
I need a smart jacket for my interview.
She works in a very smart new office overlooking the River Cam.
I don't like smart clothes, but for special days I have a very nice long black skirt.
intelligent
Gemma's teacher says she's one of the smartest kids in the class.
Why don't you fix it if you're so smart?
I'm not smart enough to understand computers.
He's smart enough to know he can't run the business without her.
Quitting that job was the smartest move I ever made.
He is a very kind, smart, and good person, besides, he is a good son.
using computers or information stored in electronic form
a smart phone
smart bombs
Some telephones are only operated by "smart cards".
to break into a lot of pieces with a loud noise, or to make something break into a lot of pieces with a loud noise
Rioters ran through the city centre smashing windows and looting shops.
She dropped her cup and watched it smash to pieces on the stone floor.
Then the two men tried to smash the door down.
to have a particular quality that people notice by using their nose
I've been cooking, so my hands smell of garlic.
That soup smells delicious - what's in it?
When the rain stops, you can see the trees and flowers with water on their leaves. And they smell so good!
to notice something by using your nose
Come and smell these flowers!
Can you smell something burning?
You can smell the salt of the sea when you arrive.
to have an unpleasant smell
Your running shoes really smell!
Just be careful, in some places in the countryside it smells really bad.
to have the ability to notice or discover that a substance is present by using your nose
Humans can't smell as well as dogs.
What I hate most about having a cold is not being able to smell.
the quality that something has which you notice by using your nose
What's your favourite smell?
I love the smell of orange blossom.
The marketplace was filled with delightful smells.
There's a delicious smell in here.
The garlic bread is lovely with the smell of garlic.
the ability to notice smells
Smell is one of the five senses.
Dogs have a very good sense of smell.
an unpleasant smell
I wish I could get rid of that smell in the bathroom.
People who were on the bus wondered where that smell came from.
to make a happy or friendly expression in which the corners of your mouth curve up
He smiled and shook my hand.
When he smiled at me I knew everything was all right.
I couldn't help smiling when I thought of how pleased she was going to be.
He smiled politely as Mary apologized for her drunken friends.
He smiled to himself as he thought about his new girlfriend.
But he began to smile and explained what had happened to him.
a happy or friendly expression in which the corners of your mouth curve up
Amy had a big/broad smile on her face.
She has a nice smile.
He gave me a smile.
It's nice to be able to bring a smile to people's faces.
He has short dark brown hair, green eyes and a wonderful smile.
air pollution in a city that is a mixture of smoke, gases, and chemicals
Smog hung over the city.
This will reduce smog and pollution, which has become an increasing problem for Castlecross.
to breathe smoke into your mouth from a cigarette
Do you mind if I smoke?
I used to smoke a packet of cigarettes a day.
I like the pause between lessons. We go outside to smoke and fool about.
the grey or black gas that is produced when something burns
cigarette smoke
a tiny smoke-filled pub
She leaned back thoughtfully and blew a puff of smoke into the air.
The boys I met were smoking a lot!! I hate smoke!
someone who smokes tobacco regularly
a cigarette/pipe smoker
You can go for a walk, (which is good for you), eat well-balanced food and try not to smoke (if you are a heavy smoker).
when someone smokes a cigarette or regularly smokes cigarettes
Smoking is not permitted anywhere in this theatre.
The nicotine patches are designed to help people give up/stop smoking.
Cigarette smoking kills thousands of people every year.
No smoking, please.
I don't like too much smoking in the college.
filled with smoke
a smoky bar/room
It was dark, smoky, scruffy and overcrowded!
having a regular surface that has no holes or lumps in it
soft, smooth skin
a smooth wooden table
Mix together the butter and sugar until smooth.
The road ahead was flat and smooth.
This cream will help to keep your skin smooth.
The sand is so smooth and the water is so clean!
happening without problems or difficulties
Her job is to help students make a smooth transition from high school to college.
As far as I am concerned, not only will this create a bad public reputation but it will also disturb the smooth running of both the hospital and our charity organisation.
happening without any sudden movements or changes
The plane made a smooth landing.
without any problems or difficulties
Everything was going smoothly before Darren arrived.
All the machinery was running smoothly.
I hope everything goes smoothly.
without any sudden movements or changes
The car accelerated smoothly.
John felt strange unity with his car; the car reacted very smoothly and instantly to every movement he made.
to take something into or out of a place in an illegal or secret way
He was arrested for smuggling cocaine into Britain.
Somehow they manage to get themselves trapped in a vicious circle of crime, under the influence of a magician who forces them to smuggle jewels for him.
a small amount of food that is eaten between meals, or a very small meal
I had a huge lunch, so I'll only need a snack for dinner.
Fresh or dried fruit makes an ideal snack.
Many snack foods are high in salt, sugar and fat.
I prefer to see the film on Friday and after it we can have a snack, OK?
a long, thin creature with no legs that slides along the ground
He's terrified of being bitten by a snake.
a snake bite
snake venom
You would see a panda that was sent from China recently and a snake with two heads as well.
if something long and thin snaps, it breaks making a short, loud sound, and if you snap it, you break it making a short, loud sound.
The twigs snapped as we walked on them.
In January of this year, her right Achilles tendon snapped during a competition and it was uncertain whether she would be able to ski, let alone compete again.
to suddenly move to a particular position making a short, loud noise, or to make something do this
The suitcase snapped open and everything fell out.
Unfortunately, it was one of those automatic locks, that snap shut as soon as you close the doors, and, after a while he apparently found out that he was trapped inside the cupboard and couldn't get out.
to say something suddenly in an angry way
I was snapping at the children because I was tired.
Your job can be stressful enough without somebody snapping at you all the time.
to suddenly be unable to control a strong feeling, especially anger
She asked me to do the work again and I just snapped.
Something snapped in her, she told herself, "Let's quit my boring job, and make a fresh start!!"
to take something or someone quickly and suddenly
Bill snatched the telephone from my hand.
The child was snatched from his bed.
He snatched the controls out of her hands and threw them on the floor.
to go somewhere quietly because you do not want anyone to hear you
I sneaked into his bedroom while he was asleep.
He was going to make a photocopy first and then, maybe he could sneak out from the office.
to take something somewhere without anyone seeing you
We tried to sneak the dog into the hotel.
At these parties some of us sometimes used to sneak in some alcoholic drinks like vodka or whiskey.
to look at someone or something quickly and secretly
I sneaked a look at the answers.
When you sneeze, air and often small drops of liquid suddenly come out of your nose and mouth in a way you cannot control.
Cats make him sneeze - I think he's allergic to them.
We were sneezing all the time and had a fever.
to breathe air in through your nose in a way that makes a noise
You were sniffing a lot - I presumed you had a cold.
Suddenly we heard something sniffing. Something was approaching us coming from the darkness. It was a bear.
to breathe air in through your nose in order to smell something
He sniffed his socks to see if they needed washing.
Dogs love sniffing each other.
She sniffed at her glass of wine before tasting it.
Dogs are sometimes used at airports to sniff out drugs in people's luggage.
That puppy was the cutest thing: tiny body, with floppy ears, a curious wet nose that wanted to sniff everything on its way, and huge cheerful eyes.
someone who thinks they are better than other people because they are in a higher social position
My aunt is such a snob!
Being stylish, whether it concerns cornflakes or shoes, to the degree of not having your own opinion, seems to be a pattern of behaviour typical of a teenager or a total snob.
like a snob
a snobbish attitude
Mary's friends seemed to be snobbish and artificial in their manners to Michael.
to breathe in a very noisy way while you are sleeping
He was snoring so much it kept me awake.
You know, we can live together as long as you don't snore like you did last time.
soft white pieces of frozen water that fall from the sky when the weather is cold
Outside the snow began to fall.
Let's go and play in the snow!
A blanket of snow lay on the ground.
Her hair was jet-black, her lips ruby-red and her skin as white as snow.
I like England because I like weather like snow.
If it snows, snow falls from the sky.
It's snowing.
It's starting to snow.
It had snowed overnight and a thick white layer covered the ground.
It is raining and snowing all the time.
to be unable to leave a place because there is too much snow
We were snowed in for two days.
After being snowed in the following morning, we headed off to Las Vegas.
to have too much work
I'm snowed under with college work.
During late winter evenings when you are snowed under at work, this positive change is what keeps you going.
a large board that you stand on to move over snow
I hired a snowboard for the day.
Moreover, I missed my snowboard, so the surfboard, the waves, the sand and the sun were filling this empty place in me.
a sport in which you stand on a large board and move over snow
I love snowboarding.
I recommend you to go to St Moritz, where you can do a lot of interesting things like snowboarding, walking and so on.
used to emphasize the quantity, quality or amount of something
The house is so beautiful.
Don't be so stupid!
I didn't know she had so many children!
Thank you so much for all your help.
I've never seen so many people in one place before!
I'm so tired (that) I could sleep in this chair!
Thank you so much for your help!
used to refer to something that has just been mentioned, especially to give a short answer to a question
"I hope they stay together." "I hope so too."
"Do you think he's upset?" "I don't think so."
James is coming tonight, or so he said.
Do you like this colour? I hope so.
used after a list of things to show that you could have added other similar things
She plays a lot of tennis and squash and so on.
I like watching television, playing on the computer, reading books and so on.
used to say that someone else also does something or that the same thing is true about someone or something else
"We saw the new Star Trek movie last night." "Oh, so did we."
My eyes went watery and so did hers but then we laughed at each other.
until now
So far we've made thirty-two thousand pounds.
So far I like it here very much.
approximately
"How many people were at the party?" "Fifty or so, I guess."
After an hour or so they changed the flight and new people came, the he realised that his suitcase was lost.
if this is the case
It might rain this afternoon. If so, we'll have to have the party indoors.
Will you be in time for dinner? If so, I'll cook your favourite dish.
in order to
I always keep fruit in the fridge so as to keep insects off it.
I could come on 8th July so as to be there on Tim's birthday.
if you do this, or if this is done
They want to build a completely new school, but to do so would cost far too much.
I would strongly advise you against taking out a loan of this size. To do so would be a great risk to your business.
It is generally believed that if a better education is provided, children are better prepared for adult life. To do so, money is essential.
used to emphasize that something surprising is true despite what you have just said
Car prices have gone down a lot, but even so, we couldn't afford to buy one.
I'm sure many of these things happened due to bad luck, but even so, there are some arrangements that, I believe, can easily be improved.
used for saying what the purpose of an action is
He went in very quietly so as not to wake the baby.
Secondly, I think we should plan some other kind of activities in case of bad weather and we should have more than one bus with us so as not to waste time in case it breaks down.
used to say that something has not been useful or successful
"The computer's crashed again." "So much for modern technology."
So much for turkey, crackling and mince pies - we ended up having a Christmas party of our own at Pizza Hut!
used to say that there are limits to something
There's only so much help you can give someone.
The effects of a longer life span have many side effects such as an increase in the world's population and, since there is only so much food, many more people are starving to death.
used to say that you were right and that someone should have believed you
He's lazy? I told you so, didn't I?
See, I told you so", Azman said with a grin.
sometimes, but not often
He went into town every so often to buy supplies.
Elizabeth and others visited her every so often until one day she left them.
used to say that something has gone well until now
It's the first time I've done any decorating, but so far so good.
So far so good, only no one told us they held this point of view before the actual christening took place.
used to explain that the words you are using do not have their usual meaning
That was our accommodation, so to speak.
In those cases, travelling turns into a sort of alienation, so to speak.
used to say that something is the reason why something else happens
I was tired so I went to bed.
Greg had some money so he bought a bike.
My knee started hurting so I stopped running.
I was lost so I bought a street map.
I'm going to change my school, so I have to sell all my books.
used at the beginning of a sentence to connect it with something that was said or happened previously
So, there I was standing at the edge of the road with only my underwear on ...
So, just to finish what I was saying earlier...
So, who do you think is going to win the election?
So, here we are again - just you and me.
So that's what he does when I'm not around!
So we leave on the Thursday and get back the next Tuesday, is that right?
I remember you said that you want to help me. So, can you buy the items for me and then I pay you?
in order to make something happen or be possible
He put his glasses on so that he could see the television better.
I deliberately didn't have lunch so (that) I would be hungry tonight.
Leave the keys out so (that) I remember to take them with me.
Could you please give me some extra exercises so that I can cover the work I missed?
If you soak something, or let it soak, you put it in a liquid for a period of time.
Soak the bread in the milk.
He left the pan in the sink to soak.
I was just enjoying the warm sand, soaking my feet in cold water, when his shadow obscured the sun.
If liquid soaks somewhere or soaks something, it makes something very wet.
The rain soaked my clothes.
The ink soaked through the paper onto the table.
The fish tank had been upended causing the fish to drop dead and the water had soaked the fitted carpet. PHRASAL VERB soak up sth or soak sth up PHRASAL VERB
to enjoy the effects of an experience
We arrived early at the festival to soak up the atmosphere.
I spent two weeks in Greece soaking up the sun.
I like a lazy rest, so I took advantage of the sunny weather and sandy beach and soaked up the sun all day long.
completely wet
My shirt was soaked.
Now it is a pleasure to drive in a warm and dry car, looking at the soaked bicycle riders as you quickly drive by them.
completely wet
You're soaking - why didn't you take an umbrella?
The dog was soaking wet.
Then we arrived at the camp, and we were soaking wet.
a substance that you use for washing
a bar of soap
liquid soap
soap and water
a soap dish
I think the soap and the shampoo are in the bathroom.
a series of television or radio programmes that continues over a long period and is about the lives of a group of characters
I watch all the soaps.
But when I'm watching TV, I prefer soaps.
a series of television or radio programmes that continues over a long period and is about the lives of a group of characters
She enjoys watching soap operas.
Do you like soap operas?
to increase to a high level very quickly
House prices have soared.
Not only has the interest from the public soared, but the competitions have also become commercially exploited and are today an integral part of our modern "brand and lifestyle" society.
to move quickly and smoothly in the sky, or to move quickly up into the sky
The birds were soaring high above.
Through the windows, a colourful bird could be seen, soaring, swooping, hovering, before disappearing.
increasing very quickly
soaring property prices
This is due to soaring house prices, especially in urban areas.
to cry in a noisy way
We found her sobbing in a corner.
Suddenly one of our group members started to sob.
Someone who is sober is not drunk.
She remained sober all evening.
Emma's father was a very wealthy man who had millions in the bank but he was also a violent drunk who was rarely sober.
Someone who is sober is serious and thinks a lot.
He was in a sober mood.
We rarely see each other and our carefreeness and "joie de vivre" gave way to a more sober attitude towards life, we all have our jobs and our own destiny to take care of.
Clothes or colours that are sober are plain and not bright.
a sober, grey dress
Peter wore a blue suit and a sober tie.
used to show that you think a word that is used to describe someone or something is wrong
It was one of his so-called friends who supplied him with the drugs that killed him.
This so-called "Perfect Evening" was so disappointing, as well as discouraging us from coming to your Circle Theatre again.
used to show that this is an informal, little known, or new name that something or someone is know as
Married taxpayers are hit hard by the so-called marriage penalty.
There are lots of so-called workaholics who suffer from heart-attacks, high-blood-pressure or general nervousness.
Someone who is sociable enjoys being with people and meeting new people.
Rob's very sociable - he likes his parties.
I had a headache and I wasn't feeling very sociable.
They are all friendly, cool, outgoing, and sociable.
relating to the things you do with other people for enjoyment when you are not working
I had an active social life when I was at college.
Most British schools organize social events for the students.
I've just become a member of the company's sports and social club.
I recommend this because there is more social life, nightlife, more fun and face-to-face experiences.
relating to society and the way people live
social classes/groups
social trends/change/equality/justice/differences
There are ecological, technical, and social problems.
a political system in which the government owns important businesses and industries, and which allows the people to share the money and opportunities equally
He is an opponent of socialism.
In his opinion, that would be a fatal mistake (his latest book is "The fatal arrogance: the error of socialism").
someone who supports socialism
My parents are socialists.
It was the first time in history that socialists were a majority in the government.
to spend time enjoying yourself with other people
I tend not to socialize with my colleagues.
I hope Adrian's actually doing some work at college - he seems to spend all his time socializing!
With reference to the accommodation I would rather stay in a tent because I think it is the best way to socialize.
using websites to meet people and talk to them
He spends a lot of time on social networking sites.
They tend to subscribe to different social-networking websites to communicate with people from all around the world and discuss different issues.
a large group of people who live in the same country or area and have the same laws, traditions, etc.
a civilized/multicultural society
These changes strike at the heart of British/American/modern society.
There's a danger that we will end up blaming innocent children for society's problems.
We must also consider the needs of the younger/older members of society.
My favourite are Dr. House and CSI, but I also enjoy a good documentary about the rights and wrongs of our society.
an organization for people who have the same interest or aim
an amateur dramatic society
the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
I read an article about the "Riding Society of Warlingham" in the local newspaper and I was fascinated by its ideas.
a piece of clothing that you wear on your foot inside your shoe
a pair of socks
woollen/cotton socks
ankle/knee socks
Put on your shoes and socks.
The little boy was wearing odd socks.
I got a watch, gloves, socks and a pair of shoes.
a large, comfortable seat for more than one person
Take a seat on the sofa and I'll get us some coffee.
I think it's under the sofa or maybe in the bathroom.
not hard or firm
soft ground
a soft pillow
soft cheese
I like chocolates with soft centres.
It's a small pillow. Oh, it's so soft and I never sleep without it.
smooth and pleasant to touch
soft skin/hair
soft leather
I like it, because it has got big eyes and very soft fur.
not forceful, loud or easily noticed
a soft voice/sound
soft music/lighting
They keep playing soft music to entertain the customers.
to like someone or something a lot
I've always had a soft spot for her.
I would definitely like to return there because I really enjoy museums and as I have always had a soft spot for art, I can say that that Foundation is my cup of tea.
a cold, sweet drink that does not have alcohol in it
Are there any soft drinks for the children?
I can make some sandwiches or sell some soft drinks to help with the concert.
in a quiet or gentle way
She speaks softly but usually gets her own way.
Before going to bed, they kissed me softly.
the quality of being soft
Just feel the softness of the baby's skin!
The room has only a few lamps and the furniture is worn down and has lost its softness.
programs that you use to make a computer do different things
He's written a piece of software which calculates your tax returns for you.
Dear Hla, I've left my computer software book at your home.
the top layer of earth that plants grow in
light/heavy/sandy soil
Many couples with young children and old people prefer fresh grass and natural soil to concrete and cement in a city.
relating to, or involving the sun
solar energy
a solar cell/panel
solar heating
It will save a lot of electricity as solar energy is used.
a member of an army
French/Cuban/Turkish/Chinese/American soldiers
Soldiers were patrolling the streets.
My grandfather began to talk: it happened when I was young. I used to be a soldier, part of the quick response forces.
only or not shared with anyone else
My sole objective is to make the information more widely available.
The sole survivor of the accident was found in the water after six hours.
She has sole responsibility for the project.
Creating a library for this sole purpose would be ideal for our school's language department.
only and not involving anyone or anything else
I bought it solely for that purpose.
It seems he's not solely to blame for the accident.
The product's success cannot be explained solely by the popularity of the ads.
In my opinion, everything depends solely on us and taking everyday decisions determines our future.
in Britain, a lawyer who gives legal advice and help, and who works in the lower courts of law
We got a solicitor to draw up the contract.
If we do not hear from you within 10 days we shall be obliged to put the matter in the hands of our solicitors, which is not what we desire.
hard and firm, without holes or spaces
solid ground/rock
a solid object
a solid structure
Having solid ground beneath her feet again she sighed with relief for having survived this adventure.
strong and not easily broken or damaged
solid furniture
If you have an accident, you have less chance of getting hurt if you are sitting in a big, solid vehicle.
not a liquid or a gas
Liquid and solid waste is collected in the tank.
Freeze the mixture for about 3 hours or so until solid.
Of the total amount of electrical power produced in the world, solid fuel is by far the most important contributor (44%).
gold/silver/wood, etc. with nothing added
a solid silver bracelet
The dark marble is easy to keep clean and the solid brass handles look luxurious.
Solid information, proof, etc. is based on facts and you are certain that it is correct.
This provided solid evidence that he committed the crime.
The drama course gives students a solid grounding in the basic techniques of acting.
It may help you, because you have a solid background and plenty of theoretical information which you could use in practice.
agreement and support between people in a group who have similar aims or beliefs
Several lecturers joined the march to show solidarity with their students.
All the people were dancing, singing, laughing and enjoying their time in the company of these beautiful children from poor African streets, with a great sense of solidarity.
A solitary person or thing is the only person or thing in a place.
a solitary figure/walker
What is more, a star should remain with the people despite her or his celebrity, and bear in mind the old and perhaps worn-out, but none the less true comparison: a general without a faithful army is just a solitary soldier amid the field.
A solitary activity is done alone.
solitary walks
It was a month-long solitary journey through India.
being alone
He went upstairs to read the letter in solitude.
You'll find true solitude and a place for serious contemplation of life's big questions.
done alone by one person only
a solo performance/flight
to sail/fly solo
He used to play with a group but now he has gone solo/has a solo career.
They all started with a solo career.
a piece of music for one person or one instrument
a trumpet solo
Parker's solo on 'A Night in Tunisia' was so amazing that the pianist backing him simply stopped playing.
They were amazing, the drummer was so fast - when he was playing the drum solo, I couldn't even see his hands and his drum sticks.
the answer to a problem
There's no easy solution to this problem.
She just seems so unhappy and I don't know what the solution is.
When you finish doing the crossword, the solution is on the back page.
They help you talk through your problems but they don't give you any solutions.
I was pleased with the solution.
to find the answer to something
to solve a problem
to solve a mystery/puzzle
Just calm down - shouting won't solve anything!
This strategy could cause more problems than it solves.
Police are still no nearer to solving the crime.
You will help me to solve this problem, won't you?
used to refer to an amount of something without saying exactly how much or how many
There's some cake in the kitchen if you'd like it.
Here's some news you might be interested in.
We've been having some problems with our TV over the last few weeks.
Could you give me some idea of when the building work will finish?
I've got to do some more work before I can go out.
I think if you make some pasta with garlic and onion sauce, that will be great.
a large amount or number of something
It'll be some time before we meet again.
It was some years later when they next met.
We discussed the problem at some length.
It's some years ago now, sixteen years I think.
used to refer to a particular person or thing without stating exactly which one
Some lucky person will win more than $1 000 000 in the competition.
Some idiot's locked the door!
There must be some way you can relieve the pain.
Maybe you hate the memory of these boring literature classes at school, but I'm sure each of you is interested in some subject or other.
used to refer to an amount of something without saying exactly how much or how many
I can't eat all this chocolate, would you like some?
If you need more paper then just take some.
"Would you like to have dinner with us?" "No thanks, I've already had some."
If you don't have any old clothes, I will lend you some.
used to refer to part of a larger amount or number of something and not all of it
In some cases it's possible to fix the problem right away.
Some of you here have already met Imran.
Have some of this champagne - it's very good.
I don't like some of the students in college.
someone
Can somebody feed the cats?
I left my cellphone in your house and it is important because I need to call somebody now.
in a way or by some means which is not known or not stated
It won't be easy, but we'll get across the river somehow.
Somehow or other, we'll get the money.
I don't know exactly what happened but somehow I managed not to fall in the lake.
for a reason which is not clear
I know what we're doing is legal, but somehow it doesn't feel right.
I did not know who was talking to me but somehow I knew that it must be an urgent matter. Why else would a stranger wake me in the middle of the night?
used to refer to a single person when you do not know who they are or when it is not important who they are
There's someone outside the house.
Someone must have seen what happened.
Eventually someone in the audience spoke.
You'll have to ask someone else.
It's very important you send it back to me because I have to phone someone right now.
used to refer to a thing when you do not know what it is or when it is not important what it is
There's something sharp in my shoe.
Something in the cupboard smells odd.
We thought there must be something wrong because we hadn't heard from you.
Something's happened to upset him but we don't know what it is.
I heard something rather worrying at work this morning.
Is there something you'd like to say?
Don't just stand there, do something.
If I need something, I go shopping.
used to show that what you have just said is only an example or you are not certain about it
Why don't you go to a movie or something?
I'd like to eat French fries or a hamburger, maybe meat-pies or something like that, but if your family doesn't eat fast food, I don't mind.
to be related to something or a cause of something but not in a way which you know about or understand
It might have something to do with the way it's made.
Well, it has something to do with politics, but as you know, I don't understand a word of it because I don't care about it.
to be a thing which is important, special, or useful
The President visiting our hotel - that would really be something.
It's not much but it's something.
My God I thought this woman sure was something.
similar to or approximately
He paid something like $2000 for his car.
He earns something like £100,000 a week or even more.
used to describe a person or thing in a way which is partly true but not completely or exactly
It came as something of a surprise.
He has a reputation as something of a troublemaker.
I had always thought Peter Murphy was something of a mummy's boy.
on some occasions but not always or often
Sometimes we take food with us and sometimes we buy food when we're there.
Sometimes it's best not to say anything.
We sometimes have classes in the library or the computer room.
slightly
The resort has changed somewhat over the last few years.
She's somewhat more confident than she used to be.
We were somewhat tired after our long walk.
We found the written article to be somewhat inaccurate, since several facts were mistaken and others were blown out of proportion.
used to refer to a place when you do not know exactly where it is or when it is not important exactly where it is
He was last heard of living somewhere on the south coast.
You must have put their letter somewhere!
I'm looking for somewhere to eat/stay.
Can we go somewhere else to talk - it's very noisy here.
Wouldn't you like to go to Disneyland or somewhere?
And I think we should go somewhere else to have a drink after the film.
approximately
Somewhere between 900 and 1100 minor crimes are reported in this city every week.
It will take us somewhere between three and four hours to get to Madrid.
The company's annual turnover is somewhere around £70.7 million.
The gathering will take place somewhere between the first and second week of the month, so you can come somewhere around then.
your male child
This is our son Raja.
We have two sons and three daughters.
I love my son and my girlfriend.
a usually short piece of music with words which are sung
to sing/perform a song
a love/folk/pop/traditional song
We sang a song at the party.
your daughter's husband
My son-in-law helped me mend the fence.
used for saying goodbye to someone you are going to meet again soon
I'll see you soon!
See you soon.
after a short period of time
She'll soon be here./She'll be here soon.
The sooner we leave, the sooner we'll get there.
Soon after agreeing to go, she realized she'd made a mistake.
How soon can we sign the contract?
I couldn't get out of that place soon enough.
Please tell me soon.
If you do something as soon as possible, you do it as quickly as you can
We need the repairs done as soon as possible.
Please call me as soon as possible!
at the same time or a very short time after
As soon as I saw her, I knew there was something wrong.
As soon as the rain stopped, I called my friend and we all continued walking in the park, and we all enjoyed ourselves.
used to say that you do not know exactly when something will happen, but you are certain that it will happen
Sooner or later she's going to realize what a mistake she's made.
Anyway I think that sooner or later you will have problems with your heart or stomach.
used to show that something happens immediately after something else
No sooner had we got home than the phone rang.
No sooner had I entered a pub than the waitress smiled warmly at me.
would prefer
I'd sooner spend a bit more money than take chances with safety.
However, with many living examples of unemployed people getting by on benefits, some young people have been influenced to think that they would sooner live on benefits than work all week and receive moderate wages.
making you feel calm or in less pain
We listened to some soothing music.
The appropriate "lounge" music would only add to the soothing and relaxing effect that this scenery would have on us and would probably go unnoticed.
well-educated and having experience of the world or knowledge of culture
She was slim, svelte and sophisticated.
I don't suppose I have any books that would suit your sophisticated tastes.
He was older than me and from London and I thought him very sophisticated.
Her conversation was very sophisticated.
A sophisticated machine or system is very advanced and works in a clever way.
I think a more sophisticated approach is needed to solve this problem.
These are among the most sophisticated weapons in the world.
These days we can use a computer, television or other sophisticated equipment.
painful, especially when touched
I've got a sore throat.
My feet were sore with all the walking.
All the dust has made my eyes sore.
I'll miss the class, because I've got a sore throat.
a subject which causes disagreement or makes people angry when it is discussed
Money is a bit of a sore point with him at the moment.
The family gathering was a bit of a sore point.
when someone feels very sad
He expressed his sorrow at the news.
Perhaps being smart and over-achieving may sound like an offer that is too tempting to turn down, but it is as much of a burden as it is a blessing. These qualities bring forth the worst in one's peers, leading to loneliness and sorrow.
used to apologize for something you have done
Oh, I'm sorry - I didn't see you there.
Tom, I'm really/so sorry about last night - it was all my fault.
Hi! Yes, of course I can go for dinner tomorrow, but I will be a little late, sorry about that.
used to show sympathy or sadness for a person or situation
I'm sorry (that) you had such a difficult journey.
We were both sorry to hear you've been ill again.
I was sorry that you couldn't come to my birthday party.
to feel sympathy for someone because they are in a difficult situation
I feel so sorry for the children - it must be really hard for them.
Anyway, I feel sorry for her and I wonder: what would I do if I were her?
used to show politeness when refusing something or disagreeing
I'm sorry but I think you've made a mistake.
I'm sorry, I can't agree.
I'm sorry, but I just don't think it's a good idea.
Sorry, you can't go in there.
I am sorry, but I completely disagree with the comments you have made about the festival.
a type of something
We both like the same sort of music.
I'm going to have a salad of some sort.
What sort of shoes will I need?
This sort of camera is very expensive.
Plants of this sort need lots of sun.
I was dancing, singing and listening to my favourite sort of music.
many different types of something
They had all sorts of jewellery for sale.
We saw all sorts of animals in the park.
I like all sorts of music but I prefer urban music!
used to show that what you have just said is only an example from a larger group of things
They sell souvenirs, postcards, that sort of thing.
I also enjoy using new clothes for the first time, but I prefer buying other stuff like electronic devices or that sort of thing.
used to describe something approximately
It's a sort of pale orange colour.
They were sort of waving.
I sort of felt like I had done my part to make the concert a success.
to arrange things into different groups or types or into an order
Paper, plastic and cans are sorted for recycling.
I'm going to sort these old books into those to be kept and those to be thrown away.
You can use the computer to sort the newspaper articles alphabetically, by date, or by subject.
popular music which expresses deep feelings, originally performed by African Americans
Their records are a mixture of soul and jazz.
I really like listening to Hip Hop, R'n'B, soul and love songs.
the part of a person which is not their body, which some people believe continues to exist after they die
She suffered greatly while she was alive, so let us hope her soul is now at peace.
Finally, two very old and serious aunts, a friend of theirs, my Grandma and a retired couple from our neighbourhood were ready to call any soul from heaven to talk to us.
a person
I didn't see a soul when I went out.
Unlike a year ago, she did not tell a soul.
used to emphasize that someone does something with all their effort and energy
They entered into the relationship body and soul.
If nowadays women are, for the vast majority, working, it occurs to me that some of them are not willing to devote themselves body and soul to their work.
to be able to pay for your food, clothing and somewhere to live
His wages are barely enough to keep body and soul together.
Not only does he keep body and soul together, but he is on good terms with his wife.
something that you hear or that can be heard
They could hear the sound of a bell tolling in the distance.
She stood completely still, not making a sound.
Suddenly we heard a loud knocking sound from the engine.
Sound can travel over very large distances in water.
I can help with the decoration, the lights and the sound.
how something seems to be, from what you have been told or heard
I like the sound of the beef in red wine sauce.
He's really enjoying college, by the sound of it.
completely safe and without injury or damage
After three days lost in the mountains, all the climbers arrived home safe and sound.
So, by the time you read this letter I'll probably be safe and sound in Liverpool.
to seem good, interesting, strange, etc. from what is said or written
Your job sounds really interesting.
I know it sounds silly, but I'll miss him when he's gone.
You're going skiing with three friends? That sounds fun.
I want a pen-friend in another country because it sounds interesting.
to seem like something, from what you have heard or read
That sounds like a really good idea.
It sounds like you've got a sore throat.
It sounds as if they had a good holiday.
It sounds like your new trousers are very nice.
to seem angry, happy, rude, etc. when you speak
He sounded very depressed when we spoke on the telephone yesterday.
At the press conference, he sounded at his most relaxed.
He sounded so excited!
the music used in a film or a television programme
The film's soundtrack includes music by Bob Marley.
The first time I heard it was in a movie, named "8 Mile". This song was the soundtrack of that movie.
a usually hot, liquid food made from vegetables, meat or fish
chicken/fish/tomato/vegetable soup
Would you like a bowl of soup?
I like to eat soup, eggs, meat and salad.
having a sharp, sometimes unpleasant, taste or smell, like a lemon, and not sweet
sour cream
sweet and sour sauce
These plums are a bit sour.
The sauce often is made of sour cream and a lot of butter.
where something comes from
a source of heat/energy/light
Oranges are a good source of vitamin C.
Experts are trying to track down the source of the contamination in the water supply.
We walked up the river to its source in the hills.
Money is often a source of tension and disagreements in young married couples.
Fish is a great source of vitamins.
someone who gives information to the police, newspapers, etc.
The story came from a source within government.
For the next report, I advise you to get the correct information from the source.
the direction which goes towards the part of the Earth below the equator, opposite to the north, or the part of an area or country which is in this direction
The points of the compass are North, South, East and West.
The best beaches are in the south (of the island).
We usually spend our holidays in the South of France.
Canberra is/lies to the south of Sydney.
I am in Toulon, in the south of France.
the part of an area that is further towards the south than the rest
We live in the south of the city.
The best place in Poland to spend a holiday is the south of the country.
in or forming the south part of something
South Africa
the South China Sea
These plants grow well on a south-facing wall.
I'm in South Africa, it is a beautiful place to have a holiday.
towards the south
The Mississippi river flows south.
They drove south towards the coast.
There is a large window facing south so that it's bright and warm.
the direction which is between south and east, or the southeast part of a country
We live in the southeast.
The south and the southeast are the backbone of the Brazilian economy so there are lots of malls, department stores and very good nightlife.
in the southeast, or facing towards the southeast
Kent is in the southeast corner of England.
in or from the south part of an area
a southern route
the Southern Hemisphere
Later we went to the "Waldsee", in the southern part of Freiburg.
the direction which is between south and west, or the southwest part of a country
The wind was coming from the southwest.
I remember the day we went to Sarlat, a lovely town in the south-west of France.
in the southwest, or facing towards the southwest
I live in a village in the southwest part of Poland.
something which you buy or keep to remember a special event or holiday
I kept the ticket as a souvenir of my trip.
There is a well-known place near the hotel were you can buy souvenirs and chocolates.
to put seeds into the ground
to sow seeds/crops
Farmers had to plough, sow and harvest cotton on their own, using their labour and hands.
a substance made from beans and used to make many foods
This milk is made from soya.
We offer a huge range of soya products, energy bars, jam and spreads, suitable for diabetics, and a good choice of herbal teas.
an empty area which is available to be used
Is there any space for my clothes in that cupboard?
I've got to make (some) space for Mark's things.
When the roads are wet, you've got to leave plenty of space between you and the car in front.
We found a parking space close to the museum.
The blank space at the end of the form is for your name.
My favourite thing about it is that it has a huge screen and a lot of memory space.
the area outside the Earth's atmosphere, where the planets and the stars are
space exploration/travel
a space rocket
Who was the first human being in space/the first to go into space?
Recently I watched a fantastic programme about space, all the planets, and the stars.
that which is around everything that exists and which is continuous in all directions
He was absent-mindedly staring/gazing into space.
Virtual Reality aims to give us artificial worlds to explore, outside normal space and time.
Just think of this one example when you go to visit a zoo and you see the elephant or the tiger or lion walking up and down and up and down in their "prison" and staring into space.
large and with a lot of space
a spacious apartment/office
The rooms are spacious enough but they are very cold and that means that during the winter we have to wear many clothes in order to stay warm.
a tool with a long handle and a flat, metal part at one end used for digging
I need a spade to move all this earth.
He put his provisions and the most neccessary tools in his rucksack and took down his favourite spade, for this was not just any ordinary dig.
emails that you do not want, usually advertisements
Most of the emails I receive are spam.
time when you are not working
I like to do a bit of gardening in my spare time.
I like to play baseball and read in my spare time.
If something is spare, it is available to use, because it is extra and not being used.
a spare key/tyre
Have you got a spare pen?
We've got a spare room if you want to stay overnight with us.
Could I have a word with you when you've got a spare moment/minute?
"Do you want this cake?" "Yes, if it's going spare."
You know I'm not good at writing letters, but do write to me if you have a spare minute.
to give time or money to someone
I have to go soon, but I can spare a few minutes.
Can you spare me some change?
Thank you for sparing your time to read my letter and I look forward to the next edition of your newspaper.
If you have time, money, etc. to spare, you have more than you need.
I arrived at the station with more than an hour to spare.
I even started to do the shopping on the Net, and I think this is the perfect solution for the business woman with family and little time to spare.
to use a lot of effort/expense, etc. to do something
We will spare no effort to find out who did this.
"However, there is a remote chance that you can be cured and we will spare no pains in order to help you," he was told.
to think about someone who is in a bad situation
Spare a thought for all the people who have lost their homes.
At this point, we should spare a thought for those who are not involved in the sport world.
a very small, bright piece of burning material
The fire was caused by a spark from a cigarette.
As the last spark ceased to glow, all the people stood up and sang the Canadian national anthem.
a small idea or event which causes something bigger to start
a spark of hope/inspiration
And with this spark of enthusiasm for faster food, some (to me unknown) genius came up with the Microwave oven, designed to cook most things in under 5 minutes.
to cause an argument, fight, etc. to start happening
to spark a debate/protest
to spark criticism/fears
Please notice that I am not blaming alcohol as the origin of the problem, rather, I am blaming it because it sparks off a reaction that worsens the problem.
water/wine with bubbles in it
Would you like still or sparkling water?
shining brightly because of reflected light
sparkling diamonds
Finally, my college is not far from the coast, where you will find beautiful beaches and the sparkling, blue sea.
special or exciting
a sparkling performance
sparkling conversation
After, it's time for lunch with a lot of Champagne (for a more sparkling atmosphere!).
with small amounts and scattered over a large area
This whole area is very sparsely populated.
A lot of these young people usually come from sparsely populated areas and want to move to a major city in order to be where things are happening.
to say something using your voice
Would you mind speaking more slowly, please?
If she tells Julie what I said, I'll never speak to her again.
She spoke of her sadness over her father's death.
Everyone speaks very highly of the new director.
He's old enough to speak for himself.
I went with Alex - speaking of Alex, have you seen his new haircut?
Speaking as a mother of four, I can tell you that children are exhausting.
Sue speaks with an American accent.
For five whole minutes, neither of them spoke a word.
I like speaking also because I speak to everybody.
to be able to talk in a language
He speaks fluent French.
How many foreign languages do you speak?
I couldn't speak a word of Spanish when I got there.
I couldn't figure out what language they were speaking.
I don't speak English properly.
to talk about something
He refused to speak about the matter in public.
In the interview she spoke of her sadness at her mother's death.
They filmed the headmistress of our school. She spoke about the school's activities.
used to explain that you are talking about something in a general/personal, etc. way
Well, generally speaking, it's quicker if you take the train.
Generally speaking, the best way to keep fit is to live a healthy life.
to make a speech to a large group of people
She was invited to speak at a conference in Madrid.
On behalf of all its members, I would like to invite you to speak at one of our meetings.
to express the feelings, opinions, etc. of another person or a group of people
I've been chosen to speak on behalf of the whole class.
I am sure that I speak on behalf of the rest of the members of this club.
used to explain that the words you are using do not have their usual meaning
That was our accommodation, so to speak.
In those cases, travelling turns into a sort of alienation, so to speak.
If something speaks for itself, it is clear and needs no further explanation.
The school's excellent record speaks for itself.
On the one hand the economic success of sports events speaks for itself.
If something speaks volumes, it makes an opinion, characteristic or situation very clear without the use of words.
She said very little, but her face spoke volumes.
It remains to be seen whether the effect of stem cells when applied to humans would be the same, but the achievements speak volumes about the fact that stem cells may one day turn a new page in many people's lives and let them get rid of that humiliating label of a "disabled person."
to say exactly what you think without worrying if it will upset anyone
She has very strong opinions and she's not afraid to speak her mind.
His father is even more eccentric, speaks his mind and has no manners at all.
to not speak to someone because you have argued with them
My brother and I aren't on speaking terms.
Just imagine how many are those who hate their relatives or at least one of their relatives and aren't even on speaking terms with them or him.
the part of a radio, CD player, etc. which the sound comes out of
I bought some new speakers for my CD player.
I had lots of lovely presents: a mobile phone, stereo speakers, clothes, CDs, books, etc.
someone who can speak English/French, etc.
He's a fluent Russian speaker.
I think I'm going to be an English speaker sooner than I expected.
someone who makes a speech to a group of people
a good public speaker
Please join with me in thanking our guest speaker tonight.
The speaker told me many things about feeding birds.
better or more important than usual things
a special friend
I'm cooking something special for her birthday.
Is there anything special that you'd like to do today?
I have a suit for special occasions.
I got many presents from my friends, and I got a special present from my dad - it was a new bike special offer
a price which is lower than usual
There's a special offer on sunglasses this week.
Unfortunately, they have stopped their special offer "1 month for Euro 100" and I know that you want to stay fit. As soon as they make a new offer I will let you know and then you can join us!
different from normal things, or used for a particular purpose
You need to use a special kind of paint.
Some of the children have special educational needs.
Full details of the election results will be published in a special edition of tomorrow's newspaper.
Firefighters use special breathing equipment in smoky buildings.
He stepped into a small, handmade, wooden canoe - it's called Hakaro. It's a special kind of canoe.
treatment that is better than usual
I don't expect special treatment - I just want to be treated fairly.
As you know, an Austin Healey needs special treatment.
someone who has a lot of experience, knowledge, or skill in a particular subject
a software specialist
She's a specialist in modern French literature.
She's a specialist in childhood illnesses.
a leading cancer/eye specialist
Now, fully equipped and powerful computers can be so small and mobile that some specialists predict that new devices will replace the book.
a product, skill, etc. that a person or place is especially known for
We tasted a local speciality made from goat's cheese.
But even McDonald's realised there is another trend on the rise - local food and specialities - and therefore started putting them on their menu.
to spend most of your time studying one particular subject or doing one type of business
She's hired a lawyer who specializes in divorce cases.
a restaurant that specialises in seafood
I enjoy working in general medicine, but I hope to be able to specialize in the future.
Some specialise in acting and others work back stage like adjusting the sound or light and preparing the outfits.
for a particular purpose
I came here specially to see you.
She has a wheelchair that was specially made for her.
The opera 'Aida' was specially written for the opening of the Cairo opera house in 1871.
I'm thinking of getting a beautiful long black woollen coat specially made for you.
a group of plants or animals which share similar characteristics
Mountain gorillas are an endangered species.
Over a hundred species of insect are found in this area.
Then I wrote an article about saving endangered species.
used to refer to a particular thing and not something general
English for specific purposes
The disease seems to be specific to certain types of plant.
Is there anything specific you want from the shops?
We need to see animals, study them, and in some cases find out why specific types of animals can't live in the nature which we have spoiled.
exact or containing details
Could you be more specific about the problem?
To be more specific, our students discovered that the majority of your exhibits did not function at all.
for a particular reason, purpose, etc.
They're designed specifically for children.
She bought it specifically to wear at the wedding.
I specifically chose to travel with you since your travel brochure promised a half-day trip to St. Andrews, where I was to meet my friend Ann.
exactly or in detail
I specifically told them that she doesn't eat meat.
The law specifically prohibits acts of this kind.
More specifically, students have to complete numerous questions with very long answers for four different subjects, and the time available for each subject is three hours.
a detailed description of how something should be done, made, etc.
They are made exactly to the customer's specifications.
Translating technical specifications prepared by non-native speakers can often cause serious problems.
to state or describe something clearly and exactly
He said we should meet but didn't specify a time.
The peace treaty clearly specifies the terms for the withdrawal of troops.
The newspaper report did not specify how the men were killed.
My contract specifies (that) I must give a month's notice if I leave my job.
The loan must be repaid within a specified period/by a specified date.
You did not specify what kind of work you are supposed to do either in a restaurant or in a museum.
an animal, plant, etc. used as an example of its type, especially for scientific study
This is one of the museum's finest specimens.
Plant life to is being given a hard time, as the would-be mountain explorers walk off the designated paths and wreak havoc in the wilderness, destroying many priceless specimens.
extremely good, exciting, or surprising
a spectacular view
The show was a spectacular success.
He scored a spectacular goal in the second half.
There was a spectacular sunset last night.
It is located in a tall building and has a spectacular view.
someone who watches an event, sport, etc.
They won 4-0 in front of over 40 000 cheering spectators.
At midnight sharp, fireworks covered the concert hall and I, as well as the rest of the spectators, felt the excitement and delight I've never felt before.
all the different ideas, opinions, possibilities, etc. that exist
He has support from across the whole political spectrum.
At the other end of the spectrum of opinions you can find some people who need to park in the city for business matters, like a local shopkeeper I talked to, who is afraid of losing customers.
the set of colours into which light can be separated
The colours of the spectrum can be seen in a rainbow.
Then, at dawn, the sun slowly rises, producing a spectacular spectrum of colours, ranging from deep purple to blinding yellow.
to guess possible answers to a question when you do not have enough information to be certain
The police refused to speculate about the cause of the accident.
The newspapers have speculated that they will get married next year.
One can speculate endlessly without any inkling of what the subject involves and will never be able to be sure whether there is any truth behind their contemplations.
when people guess about something without having enough information to be certain
She has dismissed the claims as pure speculation.
I seriously urge your organisation to base your reports on hard facts instead of speculation.
someone's ability to talk, or an example of someone talking
Children usually develop speech in the second year of life.
People who suffer a stroke may experience a loss of speech.
Some expressions are used more in speech than in writing.
The reason why I decided to join the English class is because of my English speech, I should talk more fluently but I'm trying my best.
a formal talk given usually to a large number of people on a special occasion
I had to give/make a speech at my brother's wedding.
The Governor of New York delivered a rousing speech to the national convention.
He gave the after-dinner speech .
Did you hear her acceptance speech at the Oscars ceremony?
I suggest that if you want to invite someone to give a speech, you have to invite athletes.
the right to say or write what you want
They fought for the right to free speech.
Music, especially punk-music, symbolizes freedom of speech.
unable to speak because you are so angry, shocked, surprised, etc.
I couldn't believe what he was telling me - I was speechless.
Last year, I had the opportunity to visit Chania again with my family and I was speechless when I understood that everything has undergone rapid change, because of tourism.
how fast something moves or happens
high/low speed
He was travelling at a speed of 90 mph.
The car has a top speed of 155 miles per hour.
You should lower/reduce your speed as you approach a junction.
On a clear, straight road you can gather/pick up speed.
It was the speed at which it all happened that shocked me.
So we left at full speed!!!
very fast movement
I get a real thrill from speed.
He put on a sudden burst of speed.
Both cars were travelling at speed when the accident happened.
Every summer I go to watersports because I like water. I'm very good at swimming and I like the speed of some watersports.
having all the most recent information about a subject or activity
The course should bring you up to speed with the latest techniques.
Apart from this you can keep yourself up to speed with what's happening around the world on various fronts.
to drive faster than you are allowed to according to the law
She was caught exceeding the speed limit.
There are three ground rules you have to follow: stop at stop-signs, don't exceed the speed limit and don't be in the way of other cars.
to write down or tell someone the letters which are used to make a word
"How do you spell 'receive'?" "R E C E I V E".
Shakespeare did not always spell his own name the same way.
Our address is 1520 Main Street, Albuquerque - shall I spell that (out) for you?
I think it's important that children should be taught to spell.
Then she made us spell our names.
forming words with the correct letters in the correct order, or the ability to do this
He's hopeless at spelling.
My computer has a program which corrects my spelling.
Your essay is full of spelling mistakes/errors.
It is important because I must revise some words for a spelling test.
to use time doing something or being somewhere
You need to spend at least 20 minutes on each exercise.
I think we need to spend more time together.
I spent an hour at the station waiting for the train.
How long do you spend on your homework?
We spent the weekend in London.
You can spend the night here if you like.
We are going to spend the weekend in Paris.
to use money to buy or pay for something
How much did you spend?
She spends a lot of money on clothes.
We spent a fortune when we were in New York.
We've just spent £1.9 million on improving out computer network.
I spent 500 dollars on this mobile phone.
the money which is used for a particular purpose, especially by a government or organization
government spending on health
spending cuts
"If I become Prime Minister, the first issues on my political agenda will be to curb government spending on armaments, to reorganise the bureaucratic system, to reduce the rate of unemployment," he told me the last time I saw him.
a subject or area of knowledge, work, etc.
the political sphere
There is a very big crew, all of them very good in their sphere of work.
a substance made from a plant, which is used to give a special taste to food
Cinnamon, ginger and cloves are all spices.
Spices are widely used in South Asian cooking.
It's very delicious with some spices and many kinds of salad.
something that makes something else more exciting
A scandal or two adds a little spice to office life.
Yes, we just have to believe in ourselves, add a little spice to our days and face the world - no matter which world.
containing spices which have a strong, hot flavour
Do you like spicy food?
I don't like spicy food, it's not good for my stomach.
a small creature with eight long legs which catches insects in a web
a spider's web
She is afraid of spiders.
to pour liquid or another substance somewhere without intending to, or to fall or flow out of a container in a way that is not intended
I spilt coffee on my silk shirt.
You've spilt something down your tie.
Let's see if I can pour the juice into the glass without spilling it.
He dropped a bag of sugar and it spilt all over the floor.
Then I'm going to buy a new rug, because a few days ago, I spilled some juice.
If something spins or you spin something, it turns around and around quickly.
The car spun across the road.
When the valve of the reservoir is opened, it passes through a pipe and it makes the turbine spin.
a vegetable with large, dark green leaves and a strong taste
spinach lasagne/salad
The embarrassing moment came when I saw the first dish: carrots with spinach!
the long structure of bones down the centre of your back, which supports your body
She injured her spine in a riding accident.
I had to carry my luggage to my room on the 3rd floor, which was hard as I suffer from a spine injury.
to make you feel afraid or excited
The sound of his voice sent shivers down my spine.
Simply looking at her sent shivers down his spine - there was the love of his life, the dearest woman on good old Earth, that he's never met before.
a situation which is getting worse very quickly, and which is difficult to control
After his death, the family went into a downward spiral.
Unemployment is one of the major problems of our society. It is the first step of a downward spiral.
the way people think and feel about something
The players have a very strong team spirit.
As rock musicians in the 1960s, they were very much part of the spirit of the age/times.
We acted in a spirit of cooperation.
In addition to that, you should invite athletes who have experience in sports to speak about team spirit and the role that sports have in our life.
feeling good/excited/unhappy, etc.
The whole class was in good spirits that day.
I was in high spirits until I got my paper back.
a form of a dead person such as a ghost
an evil spirit
I thought the house could have ghosts or spirits and because of this, I tried to convince myself that it had been my imagination, but suddenly the lights went out.
the part of a person which is not their body, which some people believe continues to exist after they die
I believe my spirit will live on after I die.
I would like to tell José San Martin that even if he could not reach his goal, without him, we would still be a dependent country. Furthermore, that his spirit was, is and will be in our hearts and minds.
a strong alcoholic drink, such as whisky or vodka
I don't often drink spirits.
There will be starters, meat, fish, desserts... and a lot of Rioja's wine, of course! Champagne and spirits too.
relating to deep feelings and beliefs, especially religious beliefs
Traditional ways of life fulfilled both economic and spiritual needs.
I'd like to get in contact with the amazing spiritual life in India. There is no other country in the world with so many different religions and sects.
in a way that relates to deep feelings and beliefs, especially religious beliefs
We returned from our holiday refreshed both physically and spiritually.
This view of life and work is not right, according to my beliefs, since being rich can lead to happiness, but may also lead you to poverty, spiritually speaking.
to force out the liquid in your mouth
I don't like to see people spitting in public.
He took a mouthful of coffee and then spat it out.
Eric could ride a horse like nobody else, he could spit the furthest and climb the highest trees, and one year Eric broke his leg and had to be taken to hospital in an ambulance.
although something exists or happens
He still smokes, in spite of all the health warnings.
In spite of his injury, Ricardo will play in Saturday's match.
In spite of the bad weather, we went to the zoo and strolled around a lot.
a feeling of anger towards someone which makes you want to hurt or upset them
He hid my new jacket out of spite.
She did not do that out of spite or vengeance.
If a liquid splashes or you splash a liquid, drops of it hit or fall on something.
Water was splashing from a hole in the roof.
Unfortunately some paint splashed onto the rug.
She splashed her face with cold water.
But in some towns we stayed in, there were public swimming pools so we could even splash in the water.
to move in water so that drops of it go in all directions
The children splashed about in the puddles.
So we were splashing around and then went to dry ourselves.
the sound of something falling into or moving in water
They sat listening to the splash of raindrops on the lake.
My friend, the mechanic Alex, heard a strange noise, a very powerful splash in the sea, and a lot of water came into the boat.
a drop of liquid which has fallen on something, or the mark made by it
There were several small splashes of paint on the carpet.
Add a splash of lemon juice.
And at precisely 6pm, the sky is painted with a splash of orange and there you can enjoy one of the best sunsets in the world.
to get a lot of public attention
The film made quite a splash in the US.
Moreover, it is no use splashing your money about on expensive gifts because this behaviour shows that you are not happy but your purpose is to make a splash.
very good or very beautiful, special, etc.
a splendid idea
a splendid view
As far as interviewing sports personalities is concerned, it would be a splendid idea to interview Gerry Armstrong because he would be able to inform students about football, as he is a very good player.
when something is extremely beautiful or luxurious
Tourists marvelled at the splendour of the medieval cathedral.
Opposite and above us towered huge mountains like rocky giants reaching their hands up into the cloudless sky. Our painful legs were forgotten, the scratches paled into insignificance in the face of such majestic splendour.
to divide into smaller parts or groups, or to divide something into smaller parts or groups
The prize was split between Susan and Kate.
Split the aubergines in half and cover with breadcrumbs.
The teacher split the children into three groups.
In my opinion we might just split a full-time salary.
to share something by dividing it into smaller parts
The cost of the wedding will be split between the two families.
Sharing is cheaper since you always split the bills two or more ways and in your own place you cook your own food.
If something splits or if you split it, it comes apart so that there is a long, thin hole in it.
He split his trousers when he bent over.
Her shoes were splitting apart at the sides.
The wooden floor had cracked and split in the heat.
It made a satisfying crashing noise as the frame and glass split.
If a group of people splits, or something splits them, they disagree and form smaller groups.
This issue could split the Conservative Party.
The government is split on the issue of hunting.
This debate has affected a lot of discussions and split public opinion.
to stop something from being enjoyable or successful
He tried not to let the bad news spoil his evening.
I haven't seen the film, so don't spoil it for me by telling me what happens.
You'll spoil your appetite for dinner if you have a cake now.
And perhaps it will rain and spoil your holiday.
If you spoil a child, you let them have anything they want or do anything they want, usually making them badly behaved.
Her children are completely spoiled.
Few children are more spoiled than Japanese children.
a man who is chosen to speak officially for a group or organization
He was the spokesman for their organization.
Becoming spokesman or woman for a good cause will lead to more popularity of and more attention for the cause.
someone who is chosen to speak officially for a group or organization
She was the spokesperson for the group.
As the local community spokesperson, my ability to plan, initiate and execute the cleaning of rivers, within our local community as a start, will be beneficial to the "Protect our river" requirements.
to give money to someone to support an activity, event, or organization, sometimes as a way to advertise your company or product
The team is sponsored by JVC, so the players wear the letters JVC on their shirts.
Eva said she was doing a ten-mile walk for charity and asked if I'd sponsor her for £1 a mile.
The whole event is organized by university students and is sponsored by local firms.
a person or organization that gives money to support an activity, event, etc
All the major theatres now have sponsors, especially for high-cost productions.
Last but not least I am also very keen on supporting the club in general, like finding a sponsor or becoming a member of the board.
when someone gives money to support something
We wanted to set up a youth club, and asked local businesses for sponsorship.
The aim of this proposal is to explain the reason why our company can sponsor our country's tennis championship and outline the benefits we will gain from this sponsorship.
an object with a handle and a round, curved part at one end, used for eating and serving food
Could I have a spoon, please?
Can I give you some knives and spoons for the cake?
a game or activity which people do to keep healthy or for enjoyment, often competing against each other
Football, cricket and hockey are all team sports.
I enjoy winter sports like skiing and skating.
Her favourite sport is tennis.
all types of physical activity which people do to keep healthy or for enjoyment
She used to do/play a lot of sport when she was younger.
Anna likes sport and cinema.
relating to sports
sports equipment
He only reads the sports section of the newspaper.
You should go there because in a big school there are more possibilities of making new friendships and you can choose from a wide range of sports activities.
a building with places where you can play different sports
On Sunday, we played badminton at our local sports centre.
Next to the lake, there is a sports centre.
Sporty people are good at sports.
I'm not very sporty.
Our events this summer have proved that the sporty young people in the International students' sports club are both ambitious and know how to have fun.
a small, round mark which is a different colour to the surface it is on
He had a spot of grease on his tie.
I wore that skirt with the green spots.
This lamp is green with yellow spots on it and in my opinion it's perfect for my room.
a place
This looks like a nice spot for a picnic.
Lake Frene is just a lake, there's nothing to do and it's a crowded spot.
an unpleasant, small, red mark on your skin
He suffered badly with spots as a teenager.
to like someone or something a lot
I've always had a soft spot for her.
I would definitely like to return there because I really enjoy museums and as I have always had a soft spot for art, I can say that that Foundation is my cup of tea.
to ask someone a question which is difficult or embarrassing to answer at that time
Sorry to put you on the spot, but I really need an answer.
immediately
I accepted the job on the spot.
And when it was Meredith's turn to tell her about her impending wedding, she felt she was going to have a heart attack on the spot.
to see or notice something or someone
I've just spotted Malcolm - he's over there, near the entrance.
If you spot any mistakes in the article just mark them with a pencil.
The police spotted him driving a stolen car.
I soon spotted what was wrong with the printer.
The policewoman spotted that I hadn't got my seat belt on and signalled me to stop.
It is very easy to spot because there is a big sign for the hotel next to the building.
completely clean
By the time I'd finished, the whole room was spotless.
Sitting in her armchair, Ann realised that she was by herself for the first time after many difficult weeks spent with her mother in a spotless bedroom of a Swiss hospital.
when someone gets public attention by being on television, in the newspapers, etc.
to be in the spotlight
She's rarely out of the media spotlight these days.
Besides the conference centre will put our town in the spotlight and many political leaders will come and be aware of our problems.
a strong light which can be pointed in different directions
They turned the spotlight on the lead guitarist during his solo.
At last, when the first notes came out of the orchestra, a spotlight showed the enormous figure of Ludwig van Mill strolling in the forest, blowing his horn and grinning at the trees.
your husband or wife
Is his spouse still living?
It might be that the object in question reminds the owner of a beloved person, a deceased relative, a lost love, or a trip with his or her spouse.
liquid in a container which forces it out in small drops
hair spray
spray paint
Actually, there was an attempt to cut down on using and producing sprays which destroy the ozone layer.
to force liquid out of a container in many small drops
The fields are sprayed with pesticides.
She sprayed a little perfume on her wrists.
Vandals had sprayed graffiti on the wall.
I quickly helped the others to decorate the hall - we blew up as many balloons as we could and sprayed them with gold and silver.
to gradually affect a larger area
The fire spread very rapidly because of the strong wind.
It started off as cancer of the liver but it spread to other areas of the body.
It seemed that the fire might spread more.
If information spreads, or if someone spreads it, it is communicated to many people.
News of his victory spread quickly.
Have you been spreading gossip about them again?
The news spread all over the village.
to cover an area
The suburbs spread for miles in every direction.
Our offices are spread (out) over a very wide area.
It has about 500 inhabitants, who live in 128 houses, which are spread over a big area.
to arrange something over a large area, especially something that was folded
I spread a blanket over his legs.
We spread the map on the floor.
He spread the cards out on the table.
She spread out her towel on the sand and lay down.
She looked at all the diaries that were all spread out around her on the bed.
to move a soft substance across a surface so that it covers it
What I really like is hot, buttered toast spread with strawberry jam.
He spread a thin layer of glue on the paper.
The British are astonished when they see Catalans rubbing their bread with ripe tomatoes. Likewise Spaniards feel surprised when Europeans spread butter on it instead.
to arrange for something to happen over a period of time and not at once
The payments will be spread over two years.
This would both spread the cost and make the whole plan more workable.
when something moves to cover a larger area or affect a larger number of people
Jazz records fostered the spread of American culture.
More should be done to stop the spread of this disease.
It is true that these days people have much more choice in entertainment, the spread of computers and video games is just one example.
a chart produced on a computer which helps you to do business calculations and planning
She prepared a spreadsheet with the new sales information.
I would be very interested in joining your club, in order to learn how to use basic software like word processing, spreadsheet or database software.
the season of the year between winter and summer, when the weather becomes warmer and plants start to grow again
spring flowers/weather
Many bulbs flower in (the) spring.
Janet's coming over for a couple of weeks next spring.
You can come in spring.
a place where water comes out of the ground
hot springs
Also there is a hot spring beside a river.
to jump or move somewhere suddenly
The cat sprang onto the sofa.
I tried to shut the door, but it kept springing open.
Suddenly, we heard a clap of thunder and all of us sprang to our feet.
If a word or idea springs to mind, you suddenly think of it.
He asked if I knew any good places to go, but nothing sprang to mind.
Darwinism and the "survival of the fittest" springs to mind here - only the ones that fight hardest and compete against others make it to the top.
to gently drop small pieces of something over a surface
Sprinkle the cake with sugar before serving.
Near the cathedral, in an imposing Baroque building, there is the collection of modern Tinguely's fountains. Built with recycled materials, thousands of pieces move aimlessly, sprinkling water everywhere.
to encourage someone to do something or something to happen
Spurred on by his fans, he won the next three games easily.
It may spur them on to achieving more in the future.
If you do something on the spur of the moment, you do it suddenly, without planning it.
On the spur of the moment we decided to go to London for the day.
In reality, many people buy things on the spur of the moment only to discover later that they, in fact, do not meet their expectations.
someone who secretly tries to discover information about a person, country, etc.
His father was a British spy.
It's a spy story.
to secretly try to discover information about a person, country, etc.
He was accused of spying.
Also, some countries have fears about foreigners coming from underdeveloped countries and may consider some of them as a source of troubles including crimes, spying and maybe terrorism.
a group of police officers who have special skills to deal with particular problems
He was a member of the bomb squad.
This is why governments today have their own Internet police squads.
a group of people who are trained to kill, usually with guns
He faced the firing squad.
The police are also accused of organizing death squads, which enter slums and execute instead of incarcerating suspects, including many children.
a sports team
the England rugby squad
He was only seventeen years old when he was transferred from the junior academy, to the senior squad of Parathinaikos.
to waste time, money, etc.
He squandered all his money on alcohol and drugs.
By a quirk of fate, one day I realised that her parents were oblivious to the places that she visited or the products she squandered her money on.
a shape with four equal sides and four 90° angles
First draw a square.
It's a square-shaped room.
When cooled, cut the chocolate brownies into squares.
I will wear blue jeans, my white T-shirt with squares on it and my black trainers.
an open area with buildings around it, often in the centre of a town
Are they still living at 6 Eaton Square?
A band was playing in the town square.
Go up the street and turn left at the square.
having the shape of a square
The recipe recommends that you use a square cake tin.
I think my mobile phone is on the square table.
to crush something into a flat shape
He accidentally sat on her hat and squashed it.
to push someone or something into a small space
The kids were all squashed into the back seat.
My idea of fun is not getting up at seven o'clock in the morning to take a bus where we are squashed by lots of rude people we don't even know.
a sport in which two people hit a small rubber ball against the four walls of a room
a game of squash
a squash court/racket
In the club you can play golf, tennis, squash and football.
to make a short, high sound
His shoes squeaked loudly as he walked.
The wood of the drawer squeaked.
making short, high sounds
a squeaky voice
He pushed open the squeaky wooden entrance doors, noticing the smell of fresh cyan coloured paint.
to press something firmly
She squeezed his hand and said goodbye.
Cut the lemon in half and squeeze the juice into the bowl.
Once he had finished cleaning the floor, he squeezed the cloth out.
He reloaded the gun, took aim and then squeezed the trigger.
It must have been nine o'clock and I was there, sitting in my armchair, squeezing a cushion in my arms.
to move somewhere where there is very little space
She squeezed through a narrow gap in the wall.
There are a huge number of workers every morning trying to squeeze through the tiny door.
to push a knife into someone
She was stabbed in the arm.
The victim had been stabbed to death.
She raised the knife high in the air and stabbed it right into her stomach.
when something is not likely to change or move
political/financial stability
In Yugoslavia sport was an important factor contributing to the overall stability of the federation.
not likely to change, become worse, or end suddenly
Prices have remained fairly stable in recent years.
The doctor said his condition was stable.
a stable relationship
That is due to the low economic development of this country, which is nowadays relatively stable.
mentally calm and not easily upset
He's not a very stable person.
Children with a good coping mechanism are emotionally stable in facing their problems.
a building where horses are kept
We put the horses in their stables.
Not only is the noise they make so unbearable that we cannot sleep or drop off in the afternoon, but your pilots seem to enjoy low-flying raids over our stables, thus disturbing our horses.
a large, open area with seats around it, used for playing and watching sports
Thousands of football fans packed into the stadium to watch the match.
You can go to the new football stadium in Paris.
the group of people who work for an organization
There is a good relationship between staff and pupils at the school.
The staff are not very happy about the latest pay increase.
There are over a hundred staff in the company.
He is on the editorial staff of the magazine.
So I told my father to tell the staff of the hotel.
the raised area in a theatre where actors perform
Hamlet is on stage for most of the act.
The orchestra went on/off stage to great applause.
The opera singer returns to the London stage this summer.
I can clean the stage, build the lighting and connect the P.A. (Power Amplifier).
a period of development, or a particular time in a process
The project is in its final stages and should be completed by August.
They did the last stage of their journey on foot.
Our marriage is going through a difficult stage at the moment.
Their youngest child is at the stage where she can say individual words but not full sentences.
I'm not tired at the moment but I will need a rest at some stage during the walk.
At this stage, most children are able to read simple words.
Andrew spends all his spare time playing with his computer but it's probably just a stage he's going through.
At that stage of our holiday, we stayed quiet for some days in order to rest a bit after all those hours of driving.
to organize and produce a performance of music or a play, etc.
They staged a free concert in Central Park.
The local drama group is staging a production of the musical 'Grease'.
My daughter's nursery school staged 'Buratino'.
to walk as if you might fall
He staggered drunkenly towards the door.
Drearily and wearily they carried on, sometimes squelching through the mud, sometimes staggering on loose rocks.
very shocking and surprising
He earns a staggering amount of money.
However, it is expected to rise to a staggering 98% in 2010.
a dirty mark on something that is difficult to remove
a blood/grass stain
You can remove a red wine stain from a carpet by sprinkling salt over it.
I realised that I had a stain on my trousers.
to leave a dirty mark on something which is difficult to remove, or to become dirty in this way
That paint stained my shirt.
While she was changing the wheel on her car, her coat had become stained with oil.
Tomato sauce stains terribly - it's really difficult to get it out of clothes.
There was only one bed, in which they were both supposed to sleep, and the pillow was stained with something that looked like blood.
to permanently spoil something such as someone's reputation
Several politicians have had their reputations stained by the expenses scandal.
The country's history is stained with the blood of countless innocent men and women.
All those "mistakes", to put it kindly, stain the public image of our association AND the hospital.
a set of stairs and the structure around them
a spiral staircase
The second floor can only be accessed by an outside staircase or a pole that runs through the second floor, like those at fire fighters' stations.
a set of steps which lead from one level of a building to another
Go up the stairs and her office is on the right.
He stood at the foot of the stairs and called out, "Breakfast's ready!"
I have left my backpack in your house. I think it is near the stairs.
If something is at stake, it is in a situation where it might be lost or damaged.
We have to act quickly - people's lives are at stake.
The whole human race's future is at stake.
old and not fresh
stale bread
Cake goes stale quickly if it's not covered.
Furthermore, the food was nothing special - the bread for breakfast was stale and the rice for dinner was cold.
a large table or a small shop with an open front from which goods are sold in a public place
In the village market, the stalls are piled high with local vegetables.
You know, there's a big commercial square near my house where traders, along with shops, set up stalls every day and sell an enormous variety of lifestyle products ranging from CDs and instruments to furniture and clothes.
the physical or mental energy that allows you to do something for a long time
Marathon runners need a lot of stamina.
She is a healthy strong girl with stamina.
a small, official piece of paper that you buy and stick onto a letter or parcel before you post it to show that you have paid for postage
I stuck a 50p stamp on the envelope.
My hobby is collecting stamps.
to put a mark on an object either by printing on it or pushing into it with a small tool
It is necessary to stamp your passport.
Every carton of yoghurt is stamped with a sell-by date.
There was only a small sign stamped on the door, saying that it was "closed for repairs".
to put your foot down on the ground hard and quickly, often to show anger
"No!" she shouted, stamping her foot.
The audience started jeering and stamping their feet.
He stamped on my foot.
I missed him so, that even if he would pout and stamp his feet I would beam at him tenderly and kiss him gently on his cheek.
an opinion or belief about something, especially if you say it in public
What's their stance on nuclear energy?
They are adopting/taking a very tough stance on drugs.
For all the above-mentioned reasons, and as president of the local youth club, I would like to express my stance on this subject and offer viable solutions to the local council.
to be in a vertical position on your feet
He's standing over there, next to Karen.
Granny says if she stands (up) for a long time her ankles hurt.
Stand still and be quiet!
I will stand at the front of my house.
to rise to a vertical position on your feet from sitting or lying down
I get dizzy if I stand up too quickly.
Please stand when the bride arrives.
As a sign of politeness you should stand up when she comes in.
All the class stood up and sang "Imagine".
to hate someone or something
I can't stand him.
She can't stand doing housework.
I can't stand crowded shops.
to be in or to put something in a particular place or position
His walking stick stood by the door.
You'll have to stand the sofa on its end to get it through the door.
The room was empty except for a wardrobe standing in one corner.
As he stepped forward I knelt down and pulled his leg, so that he fell over and hit a small table standing beside the sofa.
if a building stands, it has not been destroyed.
After the earthquake not a single building was left standing in the village.
The city was filled of magnificent monuments, some of them still standing today.
to be at a particular level, amount, height, etc.
Inflation currently stands at 3 per cent.
It was overtaken by furniture and equipment, which stood at 23 per cent in 2001, but only at 15% in 1981.
to be able to accept or deal with a difficult situation
She couldn't stand the pressures of the job.
The pain was more than he could stand.
Finally, last week we had a meeting and we decided to complain about that because nobody could stand the situation any more.
If it stands to reason that something happens or is true, it is what you would expect.
It stands to reason that a child who is constantly criticized will have little self-confidence.
So it stands to reason that there is no place for Piggy in Jack's world.
to be in a particular state or situation
The house stood empty for years.
The player is currently standing second in the world rankings.
The cottage next to ours stood empty.
If someone stands trial, they appear in a law court where people decide if they are guilty of a crime.
to stand trial for murder
He was going there in order to arrest Christians and bring them to Jerusalem to stand trial for their treason.
to be in a situation where you can get/lose money or an advantage
He stands to gain a fortune if the company is sold.
International tourism should be encouraged, rather than reduced, because countries that are still developing stand to gain a lot from visitors from other parts of the world.
what someone thinks about you, how they expect you to behave, and how they are likely to behave
She said she will never leave her husband, so now at least I know where I stand.
what your opinion is about something
We asked the head teacher where he stood on the wearing of jewellery in school.
From where I stand, some action must be taken urgently because the problems are constantly exacerbating.
to have a chance of success or of achieving something
He stands a good chance of winning the election.
These kids don't stand a chance of getting an education.
If this measure were taken, the outcome would be of fundamental importance for the currently unemployed because they will stand a chance of finding a job and making a living.
as something is now, without changes in it
The law as it stands is very unclear.
In my opinion, this debate is rooted in a deeper questioning of society's foundations: some people see society as it stands today as inherently flawed, an amorphous group of people who follow and worship anyone that gives them pleasure.
to compete in an election for an official position
to stand for office/parliament
As a member of a party called Democratic Union she stood for election in Poland and is now in parliament.
to refuse to change your opinion or move your position despite attempts to make you
They tried to make me accept a lower wage, but I stood my ground.
She said she would stand her ground. In fact, she hoped that after the first flush of infatuation was over, Francis would come to long for his former love.
a table or small structure from which goods are sold or shown
a hot dog stand
Visit our stand at the trade fair.
It would be extremely beneficial to our company to have a stand there next year.
to publicly defend something or stop something from happening
It's about time someone made a stand.
He refuses to take a stand on this issue.
We cannot simply stand by while our greenery is being destroyed, so I am making a stand.
a piece of furniture for holding things
a music/hat stand
We go backstage, the audience is still clapping and the people in the orchestra are beating with their bow on the music stand.
a level of quality, especially a level that is acceptable
a high standard of service
low safety standards
His work was below standard.
She sets very high standards for herself.
This essay is not of an acceptable standard - do it again.
In conclusion, I hope that my ideas will help to improve the standards of this café and will bring more customers in the future.
how much money and comfort someone has
a low/high standard of living
I think we would have a better standard of living if we had this situation.
a level of behaviour, especially a level that is acceptable
high moral standards
According to my moral standards, adults should not take advantage of children's lack of experience and they should certainly not incite them to tell lies and betray others.
usual rather than special, especially when thought of as being correct or acceptable
White is the standard colour for this model of refrigerator.
These are standard procedures for handling radioactive waste.
The metre is the standard unit for measuring length in the SI system.
It should be a standard price.
a particular way of thinking about a situation or problem
to look at something from a political/religious standpoint
From a moral standpoint it can be argued that the income distribution that comes from such incredible payments is unacceptable.
a famous singer, actor, sports person, etc.
a rock/movie/football star
Kids wanting to be stars come to Hollywood from all over America.
My favourite tennis star is Juan-Carlos Ferrero.
a ball of burning gases that you see as a small point of light in the sky at night
Stars twinkled/shone above them as they lay on the hill.
Well, it's really big, with two windows to see the garden in the morning, and the stars at night.
a shape or symbol with four or more points
star-shaped
How many stars has this restaurant got?
It has pink flowers and blue stars.
someone or something that is better than all the others in a group
He is one of our star players.
She was the star of the English class.
He led Brazil to win two more World Cups, and in both of them he was the star player, the black prince.
used to show how good a restaurant or hotel is
a five-star hotel
Also the facilities were great and people started building houses, and the small village became an attractive town with museums, universities, wonderful beaches, five-star hotels and other beautiful facilities.
If a film, play, etc. stars someone, or if someone stars in a film, play, etc., they are the main actor in it.
Ben Kingsley starred in the film 'Gandhi'.
Fowles's novel 'The French Lieutenant's Woman' was turned into a film starring Meryl Streep.
As we both love romantic comedy, we decided to see Notting Hill together, which starred Julia Roberts and Hugh Grant.
when someone is very famous for acting, singing, etc.
She is heading for stardom.
The phenomenon of stardom is a complex one.
to look at someone or something for a long time and not move your eyes
Don't stare at people like that, it's rude.
Chuck sat quietly for hours staring into the distance, thinking of what might have been.
David had seen her once before in a park, staring at him.
to begin doing something
When do you start your course/your new job?
We'll be starting (the class) at six o'clock.
Can you start on Monday?
They started building the house in January.
I'd just started to write a letter when the phone rang.
The speaker started with a description of her journey to China.
You could start by cleaning the kitchen.
He started his working life as an engineer but later became a teacher.
Dear Ramesh, I start my class at 9:30 am.
to begin to happen or to make something begin to happen
A new series of wildlife programmes has started on Monday evenings.
Police believe the fire was started by arsonists.
The Council has started another programme as well which calls people to collect the rubbish in their own street one weekend in every month.
If a business or other organization starts, or if someone starts one, it is created and starts to operate.
She started her own software company.
A lot of new restaurants have started up in the region.
It was the first time in many years he had the opportunity or time to think over his situation and life. He had started his company fifteen years ago and had been successful.
If you start a machine or an engine, you switch it on, and if a machine or engine starts, it begins to work.
The car wouldn't start.
Do you know how to start the lawn mower?
The car would not start and it was impossible to get a taxi because it was Saturday evening, so the only thing we could do was to run all the way to the school.
used before saying the first thing in a list of things
To start with, we need better computers. Then we need more training.
There is some information I should tell you about. To start with, the T.V repairman didn't come on Wednesday morning as expected.
the beginning of something
We were doubtful about the product's usefulness from the start.
They announced the start of a new commercial venture.
The weather was good at the start of the week.
The event got off to a shaky/poor start with the stage lights failing in the first few minutes.
That was a bad start to my holidays!
from the beginning of something to its end
I enjoyed the film from start to finish.
I found out that the service itself should last at least one and half hours from start to finish.
used when you are giving the first in a list of reasons or things
I won't be going - I've got too much homework for a start.
So this creates an awareness of the obligation to look after oneself for a start.
to begin doing something
We need to make a start on (preparing) the brochure next week.
an advantage that you have over someone else when you begin something
I'm grateful for the start I had in life.
With a better start in life these children will be less likely to end up on the street again.
the state of having no food for a long period
These people are dying of starvation.
While a few decades ago people used to die from starvation even in industrialised countries like France, nowadays the situation has changed and food can be found so easily that it has become an increasing source of health-related problems when exceeded.
to become ill or die because you do not have enough food, or to make someone ill or die because they do not have enough food
Many people have starved to death in parts of Africa.
People were starving to death and various crimes took place.
ill or dying because there is not enough food
starving people
What shocked me most was the misery and poverty: thousands of homeless people roaming the streets starving and cold.
very hungry
I'm absolutely starving.
I've always been greedy, but at that moment, while my Chemistry teacher was explaining a difficult lesson, I was really starving.
the condition that something or someone is in
The building is in a terrible state.
She was found wandering in a confused state (of mind).
Give me the keys - you're in no fit state to drive.
After the accident I was in a state of shock.
I came home to an unhappy state of affairs.
The kitchen was in its original state, with a 1920s sink and stove.
Some people say TV can be harmful because it keeps our mind in a passive state.
a country or its government
The drought is worst in the central African states.
Britain is one of the member states of the European Union.
The government was determined to reduce the number of state-owned industries.
Some theatres receive a small amount of funding from the state.
I opted, since I must talk about my country's history, to choose an event not from the whole history of the Greek nation, but from that of the independent Greek state (kingdom or republic, it depends on the period), which had a life of about 270-280 years.
to officially say or write something
Our warranty clearly states the limits of our liability.
Union members stated (that) they were unhappy with the proposal.
Please state why you wish to apply for this grant.
Children in the stated areas were at risk from a lack of food, the report said.
Dear Mr Thomas, I've read your advertisement in the last issue of "The Traveller", where you state that you are looking for people to work on your campsites with English-speaking tourists.
provided, created or done by the state
state education/industries
state control
state funding/pensions
In general, the rules at private schools are much stricter than the ones at state schools.
something that someone says or writes officially
The government is expected to issue a statement about the investigation to the press.
He produced a signed statement from the prisoner.
We were not surprised by their statement that the train services would be reduced.
Dear Editor Referring to your article of today, I want to correct some statements made.
a piece of paper that shows how much money you have put into your bank account and how much you have taken out
I always check my statement.
My collection consists of original, pre-WW2 hand-written documents - anything from love letters to bank statements, chores lists handed out to servants to pre-nuptial agreements, as long as it is hand-written, finds its way to my archives.
using the newest ideas, designs, and materials
It is a computer system that uses state-of-the-art technology.
It is the impressive and simply state-of-the-art graphics that entice the player to spend hours in front of the screen.
a building where trains stop so that you can get on or off them
Dad met me at the station.
a railway station
Our office is near the station.
We looked on our map to find the nearest underground/tube station.
It is near Waterloo station.
a building where a bus starts or ends its journey
The bus station is in the centre of town.
I will meet you at the bus station.
a company that broadcasts television or radio programmes
a radio/television station
The reception is not very good - try to tune in to another station.
Last week I was listening to my favorite radio station and they announced a new sports club.
a fact in the form of a number that shows information about something
Statistics show that skin cancer is becoming more common.
Women have always been as bright and educated as men - statistics show that in Germany there are more women entering for exams at the universities than there are men.
relating to statistics
There is no statistical evidence to support his claims.
I just wondered why your newspaper didn't stick to the statistical figures and the pie chart we announced on the next day after the fund-raising activity.
a collection of facts in the form of numbers that shows information about something
Statistics show/suggest that women live longer than men.
According to official statistics, the Japanese work longer hours than workers in most other industrialized countries.
According to statistics based on the questionnaire, the majority of students feel the most enthusiasm for their English class.
a model that looks like a person or animal, usually made from stone or metal
a statue of a boy
They planned to put up/erect a statue to the President.
After, we passed in front of the statue of the president.
an accepted or official position, especially in a social group
The association works to promote the status of retired people as useful members of the community.
There has been an increase in applications for refugee status.
The success of her book has given her unexpected celebrity status.
Applicants should have a degree or a qualification of equal status.
Their status and income were shadowed by the state.
something that people want to have because they think it will make people admire them
For him, a big car is an important status symbol.
Jobs now play a very important role as status symbols.
to continue to be in a place, job, etc. and not leave
The weather was bad so we stayed at home.
Do you want to stay in teaching?
They need an assistant who is willing to stay for six months.
Can you stay late tonight to finish the report?
Because of the snow, schools have been closed and children told to stay at home.
When she hasn't got her course, she often stays at home because she likes watching TV.
to live or be in a place for a short time as a visitor
I stayed in Montreal for two weeks then flew home.
They said they'd stay at/in a hotel.
The children usually stay with their grandparents for a week in the summer.
On this holiday I stayed in Bedford with my English friends.
to continue to be in a particular state
The supermarket stays open late.
I was tired and couldn't stay awake.
Put a lid on the pan so the food will stay hot.
They stayed friends after their divorce.
Some people prefer to stay dry rather than be caught by the rain.
to continue to be in the same place
He told me to stay put while he fetched the car.
It was extremely stressful and she didn't like the working conditions and atmosphere at work, but as it was difficult to find another job, she stayed put.
a period of time that you spend in a place
Did you enjoy your stay in Tokyo?
Dear Candie, I have just arrived here on my holiday. I'm in Cannes, in the south of France. It's a lovely place, and I'm enjoying my stay so much.
at a gradual, regular rate
Prices have increased steadily since the war.
In the past people didn't read books all the time. Neither did their kids at school. Today they read even less books but the number of copied and read articles or book extracts has increased steadily.
happening at a gradual, regular rate
The procession moved through the streets at a steady pace.
Orders for new ships are rising, after several years of steady decline.
Over the last 10 years, he has produced a steady flow/stream of articles and papers.
Progress has been slow but steady.
There is also a steady rise in underweight young girls today.
still and not shaking
You need steady hands to be a dentist.
Make sure you hold the ladder steady.
I know very well you have steady nerves but what is strong can turn weak as well.
not changing
She drove at a steady speed.
Once on the road, keep a steady speed (not too slow, not too fast) and try to look confident.
a job that is likely to continue for a long time and pay you regular money
I wish he'd get a steady job.
They now had steady jobs, she reasoned; their time at college had been turbulent and not quite happy and they had badly needed a mother figure to see it through, but that time was over now.
a thick, flat piece of meat or fish
steak and chips
It was at the club and we had a steak and games at the pool.
to secretly take something that does not belong to you, without intending to return it
She admitted stealing the money from her employers.
The number of cars which are stolen every year has risen.
All my friends gave me lots of presents, but I like the bike best. I like it because my bike was stolen.
the hot gas that is produced when water boils
Steam rose from the simmering stew.
a steam engine
the age of steam
The pump is driven by steam.
I've been interested in trains, in particular steam trains, since my childhood.
to get rid of your anger, excitement, etc. by being noisy or using a lot of energy
The children need to run around and let off steam.
I believe that listening to it on a daily basis will be an ideal way for us to relieve the day's pressure and let off steam.
a very strong metal made from iron, used for making knives, machines, etc.
steel pipes
a stainless steel sink
The object that I would choose is without any doubt my Katana, my Japanese Sword. It is a weapon that reminds me of my childhood games. I also like the form, and the cool steel of the blade.
A steep slope, hill, etc. rises quickly.
a steep slope
It's a steep climb to the top of the mountain, but the view is worth it.
The castle is set on a steep hill/hillside.
But the slope was terribly steep and I didn't dare to ski down.
A steep increase or fall in something is very big and quick.
There has been a steep increase/rise in prices.
However, there was a steep increase in 1978 to 1982 when the figure reached about 60 million tonnes.
to control the direction of a vehicle
She carefully steered the car around the potholes.
This car is very easy to steer.
After an hour she could keep her balance but she still had problems steering, but that didn't matter.
to avoid someone or something because they are unpleasant or dangerous
Steer clear of Tony this morning - he's in a bad mood.
Her speech steered clear of controversial issues.
Eating healthily doesn't mean starving, eating plants or steering clear of meat.
a wheel that you turn to control the direction of a vehicle
He took both hands off the steering wheel.
After leaving your house on Monday morning, I gripped the steering wheel, fixed my eyes firmly on the road, and bravely drove my way up to Scotland.
to develop as the result of something
Her problems stem from childhood.
This educational approach stems from strong family values and religious beliefs.
one of the movements you make with your feet when you walk
Sophie took her first steps when she was eleven months old.
He rose to his feet and took a couple of steps towards her.
With every step, her feet hurt her more and more.
I tried to run but with my first step, I kicked something that fell to the floor.
one of the surfaces that you walk on when you go up or down stairs
a flight of steps
We had to climb some steps to reach the front door.
I asked them to leave the parcel on the (front) step.
I go down four steps and I am on the beach!
one of the things that you do to achieve something
What's the next step in the programme?
We must stay one step ahead of our competitors.
Most people believe that the decision to cut interest rates was a step in the right direction.
The President took the unusual step of altering his prepared speech in order to condemn the terrorist attack.
We'd like to know how it feels to be in the film business, how you started and the steps you've taken to be where you are now.
moving slowly from one stage of something to the next
I know there's a lot to prepare, but just take things step by step and don't worry.
The book actually guides you step by step on how you can cope with this fear and defeat it.
to go back somewhere the same way that you came
I was lost so I retraced my steps.
Mentally retracing his steps of the morning, he remembered rushing out of his place at the last minute.
to move somewhere by lifting your foot and putting it down in a different place
She stepped carefully over the dog.
She stepped backwards and fell over a chair.
They stepped out onto the balcony.
The moment he stepped out of the train he realized he had left his suitcase inside.
to put your foot on or in something
I accidentally stepped on her foot.
Be careful not to step in the mud.
I had to dance with a boy whose name is Alex and every time he stepped on my feet.
the man who is married to your mother but is not your father
His stepfather gave him a job.
Once, Matthew told Pat that he was mistreated by his stepfather in his childhood.
the woman who has married your father but is not your mother
My stepmother is only a few years older than me.
He made up his mind to defeat them, and asked his stepmother for some kibidango, one of the traditional snacks in Japan.
a fixed idea that people have about what a particular type of person is like, especially an idea that is wrong
racial stereotypes
It seems commonly accepted that the new ''high-tech'' society has turned us into lazy people, without aims, targets, even hobbies in our spare time, unless watching videos or playing computer games. I am a student, I am young and I know a lot of people like me who do not fit in this stereotype.
having the qualities that you would expect a particular kind of person to have
a stereotypical student
Another person would rather perceive a stereotypical celebrity, a singer or a sports star as a greedy, self-absorbed and shallow pleasure seeker, concerned only with his or her own appearance and flaunting undeserved wealth.
very serious and without any humour
a stern expression/face
stern criticism
He shot his sister Sarah a stern look which did not deter her from grinning maliciously.
to become joined to something else or to make something become joined to something else, usually with a substance like glue
I tried to stick the pieces together with some glue/tape.
He stuck up a notice on the board with pins.
This glue won't stick.
My car's stuck in the mud.
Stir the sauce so that it doesn't stick to the pan.
My book got wet and all the pages have stuck together.
I stick posters of my favourite football team, Manchester United, on the wall.
If something sharp sticks into something, it goes into it, and if you stick something sharp somewhere, you push it into something.
The nurse stuck the needle into his arm.
The body of his boss's wife lay on the ground, a knife stuck in her heart.
a long, thin piece of wood, usually broken or fallen from a tree
The old man was carrying a load of sticks.
Police said that the child had been beaten with a stick.
Find some dry sticks and we'll make a campfire.
But when we ran into a quiet street, he stopped and hit me with a stick.
a long, thin piece of wood that you use when you are walking/playing hockey, etc.
She uses a walking stick.
I am very sad, because I have lost my hockey stick and it was very special to me; a very famous player gave it to me as a present.
made of or covered with a substance that can stick to other things
sticky tape
sticky fingers
The floor's still sticky where I spilled the juice.
The children's faces were sticky with chocolate.
On the wedding day, everyone has a chance to eat special food: sticky rice cakes, spring rolls and a lot of other dishes.
hard and difficult to bend
stiff cardboard
a stiff collar
His clothes were stiff with dried mud.
not easy to move
The handle on this door is rather stiff.
My knee is rather stiff this morning.
She tried to sit up straight and quickly realised all her muscles were stiff from non activity.
behaving in a way that is formal and not relaxed
He was always very stiff with us.
In spite of his often stiff attitude, Mr Stevens' very detailed description of their contact in the past and his eagerness to visit Miss Kenton in 1956 show that he does have strong feelings for her, even though he still hides this behind the eternal argument of "a need for contact of a purely professional character".
a strong alcoholic drink
I need a stiff brandy.
Then, she prepared herself a stiff drink: gin and tonic with some ice, the very same one she used to have when Jack was there.
very severe or difficult
stiff competition/opposition
We need stiffer penalties for drink driving.
The area is already full with a number of big supermarket premises and even these big businesses face stiff competition from the local shops which are open 24 hours a day.
extremely bored/scared/worried, etc.
The lecture was awful - I was bored stiff!
Squeaky noises coming out from the deep corners of my house frightened me. I was scared stiff.
used to say that something is continuing to happen now or that someone is continuing to do something now
I'm still hungry.
I still haven't finished my essay.
There is still no news about the hostages.
Do you still work for the government?
There's still time for us to get to the cinema before the film starts.
So, I think my bag is still in my room.
despite that
You may not approve of what he did, but he's still your brother.
I know you don't like her, but you still don't have to be so rude to her.
Even though she hasn't really got the time, she still offered to help.
I was sure that it was not in my house but I still wanted to check.
even better/worse
I'll meet you at the theatre. No, better still, let's meet in a pub and have a drink first.
I'm worried that his car has broken down, or worse still, that he's had an accident.
To my mind, the best place to do the painting is my bedroom, because you'll have plenty of space to work, and, better still, we won't bother anybody.
A still drink does not have any bubbles in it.
Would you like still or sparkling water?
The still water is the best but don't drink it too cold because your stomach will not like it.
not moving
Children find it difficult to sit/stand/stay still for very long.
I can't brush your hair if you don't keep/hold still.
I'd like to have my dog painted, too, but I'm afraid that'll be impossible because it won't stay still!
Still water or air does not have waves or wind.
She dived into the still water of the lake.
The air was so still that not even the leaves on the trees were moving.
At the foot of the monastery's ruins was a pool, wide and still, and smooth in the sunlight, surrounded by flowers and tall trees, wonderfully bloomed.
to encourage something to grow, develop or become active
The government plans to cut taxes in order to stimulate the economy.
This would hopefully stimulate the opening of several outdoor cafés downtown that we need as alternative meeting points for adults and youngsters.
to make someone excited and interested about something
The film was intended to stimulate and amuse.
Good teachers should ask questions that stimulate students to think.
I really enjoy watching the movies which are provided in your theatre because all the movies that I have seen are thought-provoking enough to stimulate our interest.
something that makes something else happen, grow, or develop more
The report provided the stimulus for more studies.
Nicole saw these events as the pursuit of excellence, I tend to agree with her and find them advantageous because they can serve as a goal and as a motivational stimulus for many athletes.
to mix food or liquid by moving a spoon round and round in it
Stir the sauce gently until it begins to boil.
Stir the egg yolks into the mixture.
She paused to stir some sugar into her coffee.
Slowly add the flour, stirring until completely blended.
Then you add the instant sauce and stir.
to move slightly or make someone move slightly
The baby stirred in its sleep.
There is no wind, not a leaf is stirring.
to make someone feel a strong emotion
The case has stirred great anger among the public.
Clearly, that was what I found so intriguing about the event: that mesmerizing state of being united in awe - not being able to grasp fully the rationale behind the unpredictable turns history takes but feeling one's emotions stirred and expressing this frankly.
a short line of thread that is sewn through a piece of material
The stitches around the neck are coming undone.
one of the small pieces of thread that is used to sew together a cut
She needed 50 stitches in her head.
all the goods that are available in a shop
We're expecting some new stock in this afternoon.
This shop sells its old stock at a very low prices.
We'll be getting our new stock in on Friday.
In the fashion industry, a sale begins at the end of each season and just lasts a short time, because those shop owners want to make room for new stock.
available/not available in a shop
The book is out of stock at the moment.
And sometimes the item you are looking for is out of stock.
to think carefully about a situation before making a decision
We need to pause and take stock of what still needs doing.
to have something available for people to buy
We stock a good range of spices.
Besides, unless you are quite wealthy, you can only buy what is in the shops and these tend to stock only what is in fashion, so it is hard not to be 'in'.
a very thin piece of clothing that covers a woman's foot and leg
a pair of stockings
Try to avoid miniskirts, fishnet stockings and sexy outfits in general, we are "mountain people" and are not very keen on this kind of fashion!
the place where stocks and shares in companies are bought and sold
Stock markets around the world are reacting to news of the US president's announcement.
The second unlucky job was office workers whose business was related to the stock market in Korea.
the organ inside your body where food goes after it has been eaten and where it starts to be digested
He was punched in the stomach.
The doctor asked him to lie down on his stomach.
The sight of blood always turns my stomach.
She's got a very delicate stomach and doesn't eat spicy food.
Because I'm going to see a doctor about my stomach, I'll miss the class tomorrow.
pain in your stomach
I've got terrible stomach ache.
I'm sorry but I have to see my doctor because I've got stomach ache.
a hard, natural substance that is found in the ground
a stone wall/floor
a flight of stone steps
They cut enormous blocks of stone out of the hillside.
Some demonstrators were arrested for throwing stones at the police.
There are houses made of stone and wood.
a hard, valuable substance that is often used in jewellery
precious stones
You know, that gold ring, with a little precious stone in the centre, meant a lot to me, because it belonged to my older sister, Giulia.
the hard seed that is at the centre of some fruits
a cherry stone
a stone's throw
Peaches, plums, and olives all contain stones.
a very short distance
The cottage is just a stone's throw from the sea.
I'm now living in Clapham, just a stone's throw away from the common, in an awesome bachelor's pad.
to do everything that you can in order to achieve something or to find someone or something
Both sides have vowed to leave no stone unturned in the search for peace.
She has left no stone unturned so as to reach her goal, always asserting her assets and views with conviction.
a seat that does not have a back or arms
a bar/kitchen/piano stool
a three-legged stool
Despite being provided with a machine which gives out hot and cold drinks, the cafeteria does not contain any table, stool or chair.
to not continue doing something that you were doing
Once I start eating chocolate, I can't stop.
Stop shouting - you're giving me a headache!
I couldn't stop laughing.
Stop it!/Stop that!
I'm trying to stop smoking.
I stopped seeing him last year.
Once you have started, you will not want to stop.
If a bus, train, etc. stops at a particular place, it pauses at that place so that people can get on and off.
Does this train stop at Cambridge?
The train stopped at the station.
to stop a journey or an activity for a short time
He stopped at a pub for lunch.
Why don't you just stop somewhere and ask for directions?
I stopped to pick up a letter that I'd dropped.
We went cycling north, following the coast from a road and about four hours later we stopped at a beautiful beach, where we had a lot of fun.
to prevent someone from doing something or something from happening
Something must be done to stop the fighting.
If she really wants to leave, I don't understand what's stopping her.
I went and beat one of the guys to stop the fighting, however, the fighting didn't stop.
to not move any more or to make someone or something not move any more
Stop the car, I want to get out!
I heard him shout "Stop, or I'll shoot!"
We were disappointed because we wanted to walk more and were ready to go home, but Sasha said: "Stop!"
to not continue to operate, or to make something not continue to operate
My watch has stopped.
Can you stop the video for a minute?
The air conditioner has stopped working.
The other day I was standing in a large department store waiting to pay for a couple of films for my camera when the assistant announced that the computer which controlled the till had stopped working.
to be willing to do anything in order to achieve something
He will stop at nothing to get what he wants.
They stopped at nothing to get the higher scores, to make themselves noticed, even if that meant telling some lies to a teacher about a schoolmate.
to almost do something but decide not to do it
She stopped short of accusing him of lying.
a place where vehicles, especially buses, stop in order to allow passengers to get off and on
a bus stop
I'm getting off at the next stop.
Is this our stop?
The bus stop is near the market.
when you stop an activity or journey, or a period of time when you stop
Please remain in your seat until the plane comes to a complete stop.
We'd have been here sooner, but we made several stops along the way.
At the beginning of the project there were a lot of stops and starts.
The best part was (without a doubt) when I made a little stop in a small town... I fell in love with that town!
to end something unpleasant
We must put a stop to the violence.
Maybe these new activities (video - videogames), which are quite distracting, are at the same time so addictive that youngsters find it hard to put a stop to it.
a short stop between parts of a journey, especially a plane journey
The plane tickets include a two-night stopover in Singapore.
We both thought that it was a good idea to have that stop-over at your place as it was on our route to Norway anyhow.
when you put things in a safe place until they are needed
We've had to build some cupboards to give us more storage space.
I think that is what our future home will be like, with lots of clever storage, and probably a few robots to do all the chores like washing up, hoovering and cleaning the windows.
a large shop where you can buy many different types of goods
a DIY/furniture store
in store
He's got a job demonstrating kitchen equipment in a department store.
going to happen soon
You never know what's in store for you.
There's a bit of a shock in store for him when he gets home tonight!
Nobody knows what the future will have in store!
to put or keep things in a special place for use in the future
I stored my possessions in my mother's house while I was living in Spain.
I've stored my thick sweaters and jackets (away) until next winter.
Then we can just go to the fridge where all the fresh food is stored ready to eat.
to keep information on a computer
The data is stored on a hard disk and backed up on a CD.
First of all, using a computer is important for me because I can store my personal records such as my diary or expenses.
a level of a building
a three-storey house
Their new house has four storeys including the basement.
It is a one-storey building in the Russian style with one, rather small, room with a bar and 10 tables.
very bad weather with a lot of rain, snow, wind, etc.
A lot of trees were blown down in the recent storms.
They're still clearing up the storm damage.
One day I was playing on the computer and my mother told me to turn it off because a storm was coming.
If it is stormy, the weather is bad with a lot of wind and rain.
a stormy night
stormy seas
It was a cold and stormy night.
A stormy relationship or situation involves a lot of anger and arguments.
a stormy relationship
a stormy meeting/debate
I had not expected that you would contact me again (especially after our stormy discussion a month ago).
a description of a series of real or imaginary events which is intended to entertain people
Will you read/tell me a story, daddy?
Martha chose her favourite book of bedtime stories.
He writes children's stories.
I don't know if it's true but it's a good story.
She gave me her version of what had happened, but it would be interesting to hear his half/side of the story.
I want to sell an English book called "Cats and Dogs". There are lots of different and funny stories in it.
a report in a newspaper or on a news broadcast of something that has happened
The main story in the papers today is the president's speech.
If someone famous goes to a pub, he should be careful what he drinks, because he could find an interesting story about his alcoholism in the newspapers tomorrow.
to mention only the final result or point of something without going into other details
To cut a long story short, he never played baseball again.
Well, to cut a long story short, let's say tuition yes, facilities no.
an explanation of why something happened, which may not be true
Did he tell you the same story about why he was late?
Susan repeated the same story three or four times: Jason had come from work at 5 o'clock and she had gone to the grocer's to get some potatoes for dinner.
not curved or bent
a straight line
She's got straight blonde hair.
She has straight blond hair and blue eyes.
honest
a straight answer
I'm asking you to give us a reasonable and straight reply.
in a position that is level or vertical
That shelf's not straight.
to make sure that you completely understand a situation
Let me get this straight - am I paying for this?
Next time you should try to get your facts straight.
to tell people the true facts about a situation
I know they thought Alex was lying, and I wanted to put the record straight.
I hope that my letter will set the record straight and that the public shall be informed about the true events of that day.
to manage to stop yourself from smiling or laughing
I can never play jokes on people because I can't keep a straight face.
in a straight line
Go straight on (along this road) and turn left at the traffic lights.
He was looking straight at me.
Can't you see it? - it's straight ahead (of you)!
Go straight on until you see the castle.
without pausing or delaying
I got home and went straight to bed.
Shall we go straight to the party or stop off at a pub first?
When I came back home at 11.30, I went straight to bed.
immediately
I knew straight away what you were thinking.
We don't need to go straight away - we can stay for a little while.
We met on Tuesday for the first time and went skating straight away, without even discussing where we were going.
to sit or stand with your body vertical
Stand up straight and put your shoulders back!
She tried to sit up straight and quickly realised all her muscles were stiff from non activity.
to say what you want to immediately and directly
I'll come straight to the point, we've run out of money.
Can you get straight to the point? We need to go home!
I will come straight to the point, Mark. I think you're just killing yourself with your work.
If you cannot think straight, you are not thinking clearly about something.
I was so tired, I couldn't think straight.
My stress wouldn't let me think straight.
easy to do or understand
Just follow the signs to Bradford - it's very straightforward.
The question of whether we should keep animals in zoos is not as straightforward as it may seem at first.
pressure put on something by a bad situation or by too much weight or force
All those books put a strain on the shelf and it broke!
Excess weight puts a lot of strain on the heart.
I think I certainly could live without watching television for a week, but it would put a tremendous strain on my everyday life because I find watching TV relaxing and I like being swept by the flood of information that you watch and listen to without really paying attention to it.
when you feel nervous and worried about something
She's a lot better than she was but she's still not ready to face the stresses and strains of a job.
He's been under a lot of strain recently.
Our dog helps us in our everyday life and relieves the stresses and strains.
an injury to part of your body that is caused by using it too much
back strain
Avoid muscle strain by warming up with slow jogging.
to injure part of your body by using it too much
I think I've strained a muscle.
Don't read in the dark or you'll strain your eyes.
I went to the optician's to have my eyes checked and he said I had some trouble with my eyesight, so he advised me to wear glasses and not to strain my eyes.
to cause too much of something to be used, especially money
The war is straining the defence budget.
It sounded very good, but I soon discovered that the service was quite inadequate and all the staff there had to say was that they couldn't do any more and that the budget was too strained.
a thin piece of hair, thread, rope, etc.
She tucked a strand of hair behind her ear.
She noticed a loose strand of white hair, and immediately pinned it back.
one part of a story, situation, idea, etc.
There are a number of different strands to the plot.
unable to leave a place
We were stranded at the airport for ten hours.
Not a single member of the group would have imagined that the "Luxury coach" would break down and leave them stranded in the middle of nowhere, and what was worse without mobile network coverage.
If something is strange, it is surprising because it is unusual or unexpected.
He's got some very strange ideas about women!
You say the strangest things sometimes.
I had a strange feeling that we'd met before.
It's strange that tourists almost never visit this village.
That's strange - I'm sure I put my glasses in my bag and yet they're not there.
Rebecca's present was very strange, she gave me a cat.
A strange person or place is one that you are not familiar with.
With so many strange faces around her, the baby started to cry.
I've never been here before either, so it's all strange to me too.
She doesn't like a big city and strange people.
in a way that is unusual, unexpected or difficult to understand
She was strangely calm.
Strangely enough, I'm not feeling very hungry.
Strangely enough this has not happened yet to zoos.
someone you have never met before
My mother always warned me not to talk to strangers.
I can't just walk up to a complete stranger and start talking to them.
The stranger came in front of me and asked if I was able to recognise him.
a narrow piece of material used to fasten two things together or to carry something
a watch strap
a bra strap
I want a bag with a shoulder strap.
When Cathy unwrapped the small parcel she found a little red book which had a slim strap with a tiny golden lock.
helping to achieve a plan, usually in business, politics, or war
strategic planning
strategic weapons
The new offices are in a strategic location, with easy access to the motorway.
This would prove to be a strategic advantage, given the relatively reduced financial power our company has currently.
in a strategic way
A few strategically placed police officers monitored the situation.
Large containers strategically situated along the village seem an appropriate solution.
a plan that you use to achieve something
the government's economic strategy
a military strategy
a long-term strategy
We're working on new strategies to improve our share of the market.
My strategy was simple: all the players had got a lot ofexperience, so I thought that the only chance to win was to bluff it out.
the long, dried stems of plants such as wheat, often given to animals for sleeping on and eating
a straw basket/hat
straw-coloured hair
Last but not least, many Japanese style hotels and restaurants now have square holes in tatami (straw mat) rooms so that foreign visitors can comfortably stretch their legs under the low table without having to be seated on folded legs like Zen monks!
the last in a series of unpleasant events which finally makes you stop accepting a bad situation
Last week he came home drunk at five in the morning, and that was the final straw.
The last straw was that as a result of the unrealised itinerary, I couldn't do what I had planned.
a thin plastic or paper tube that you use for drinking through
Could I have a straw, please?
a small, red fruit with a green leaf at the top and small, brown seeds on its surface
I thought we'd have strawberries and cream for dessert.
strawberry jam
At first we drank something - it was a special drink with strawberries.
a small river
a mountain stream
underground streams
A little stream flows through their garden.
On our way I saw small streams, small areas of jungle and beautiful animals also.
a continuous flow of things or people
There has been a steady stream of phone calls from worried customers.
I had a constant stream of visitors while I was ill.
This teahouse is packed throughout the day with workers and retired people, who come to sip tea, talk, and watch the endless stream of passers-by in the old city of China.
a road in a town or city that has houses or other buildings
a street map
Our daughter lives just across the street from us.
He was walking down the street.
My street is quiet and friendly.
used in the name of a street as part of an address
142 Ross Street
Diane's house is in Cherrywood Street.
I live in a flat, number 66 New George Street.
to be much better or more advanced than someone or something else
American film companies are streets ahead of their European rivals.
the ability to do things that need a lot of physical effort or power
upper body strength
It's a sport that requires great physical strength.
First of all, we must start by running for thirty minutes per day to improve our physical strength.
a good quality or ability that makes someone or something effective
We all have our strengths and weaknesses.
The great strength of this arrangement is its simplicity.
As everything, education in Spain has its strengths and weaknesses.
when you are brave or determined in difficult situations
I think she showed great strength of character.
He has a great deal of inner strength.
All in all, being famous takes a lot of courage and strength of personality to be able to face fame and all the risks that come along with it.
to continue to become more successful
The business is going from strength to strength.
To sum up, I believe that if the suggestions outlined above are put into action our magazine will go from strength to strength.
the power or influence that an organization, country, etc. has
economic strength
Due to the very function of sport, a country's success in international competition has been associated with its general strength and viability and has consequently been a matter of national pride.
to become stronger or make something become stronger
exercises to strengthen the leg muscles
The experience only strengthened his belief in God.
Using the bike keeps your body in good shape - the daily exercise is good for your heart and your lungs, and strengthens your muscles.
using or needing a lot of effort
strenuous exercise
With the ever-growing influence of modern techniques, it has become increasingly important to strive for near perfection in every move they make; the pursuit of excellence therefore carrying more weight than ever and leading to strenuous training programs.
feelings of worry caused by difficult situations such as problems at work
People under a lot of stress may experience headaches, minor pains and sleeping difficulties.
Yoga is a very effective technique for dealing with stress.
the stresses and strains of work
stress-related illness
I think you are all accustomed to city things, and all of them bring us stress, so I think you should go to the countryside, where you will find peace and so you'll relax.
when you say one part of a word more strongly than the rest
The meaning of a sentence often depends on stress and intonation.
When 'insert' is a verb, the stress is on the second syllable, but when it is a noun, the stress is on the first syllable.
special importance that you give to something
At school, they laid/put/placed great stress on academic achievement.
On the other hand, I think they should put some more stress on improving their student's writing skills, even down to basics like grammar, because our sales people have to hand out a lot of written information as well, which will make us look much better - especially as far as the English-speaking market is concerned - if the English is flawless.
to emphasize something in order to show that it is important
I stressed that this was our policy.
She stressed the importance of timing.
I would like to stress that very often famous people become reserved, bad-tempered and angry with the world for interfering with their lives.
to say one part of a word more strongly than the rest
In the word 'engine', you should stress the first syllable.
worried and not able to relax
She's been feeling very stressed since she started her new job.
I was really stressed out before the exam.
I was a little bit stressed when I woke up in the morning.
making you feel worried and not able to relax
a stressful day/job
Police work is physically demanding and stressful.
She's very good at coping with stressful situations.
It is good to go there after a stressful day.
to become longer or wider, or to pull something so that it becomes longer or wider
Don't pull my sweater - you'll stretch it.
The top had stretched in the wash.
to make your body or part of your body straighter and longer
"I'm so tired, " she said, yawning and stretching.
It's a good idea to stretch before you take any serious exercise.
Stretch your arms above your head.
First of all cycling is a sport so you have the possibility to move your body, to stretch your joints and to strengthen your muscles.
to cover a large area
The fields stretched away into the distance.
A huge cloud of dense smoke stretched across the horizon.
The Andes stretch for 7250 km along the west coast of South America.
I remember playing in the fields that stretched out to the horizon and sailing and swimming in the streams and lakes surrounding the small village where my parents live.
a continuous area of land or water
This particular stretch of coast is especially popular with walkers.
Traffic is at a standstill along a five-mile stretch of the M11 just south of Cambridge.
Some very rare birds inhabit this stretch of the river.
There's a stretch of coastline in the south-east of Spain that one could still call "real Spain" not many years ago.
A strict person makes sure that children or people working for them behave well and does not allow them to break any rules.
a strict teacher
My parents were very strict with us.
The teacher was strict but nice.
If a rule, law, etc. is strict, it must be obeyed.
She gave me strict instructions to be there by ten.
We need stricter controls on air pollution.
We follow very strict guidelines on the use and storage of personal details on computers.
Do you think stricter laws would help reduce automobile accidents?
I would like the government to impose strict rules and regulations on capturing animals.
always behaving in a particular way because of your beliefs
a strict Hindu/Muslim/Christian/
She's a strict vegetarian and doesn't eat poultry or fish.
When organising our lunch, please note that seven of us are strict vegetarians.
exactly correct
a strict translation of a text
You mustn't take this in its strict sense; when I say "severe", I mean aware and mindful of today's problems.
exactly or correctly
That's not strictly true.
Strictly speaking, we're not allowed to give you any advice.
Strictly speaking, we don't think about the future when the subject is nature because we think that it's eternal.
used to emphasize that something is not allowed
The use of cameras is strictly forbidden.
Eric was going to have serious problems, because smoking was strictly forbidden in this school.
to hit someone or something
Two climbers were struck by falling rocks.
His car went out of control and struck a tree.
I've never heard of anyone being struck by lightning.
Only seconds later, the tree was struck by lightning.
If a thought or idea strikes you, you suddenly think of it.
It struck me that I had forgotten to order the champagne.
Sitting there, waiting, I began to think and an idea struck me.
used when talking about a very obvious quality that you noticed when you first saw or met someone or something
What struck me about Cole was how grown-up he seemed for a seven-year-old.
The first thing that struck me about Emma was her extraordinary beauty.
What strikes me most is the way she is dealing with other people.
to stop working for a period of time because you want more money, better working conditions, etc.
Train drivers are threatening to strike over pay.
The town's transport workers have started to strike."
to give two things the same amount of attention
It's important to strike a balance between spending and saving.
Everything has good and bad sides, the most important thing is to strike a balance.
If someone or something strikes you as having a particular quality, they seem to have that quality.
He didn't strike me as a passionate man.
They strike me as creative and original people.
His comments struck me as aggressive.
Mrs Kingshaw strikes me as a rather frivolous woman.
to find a supply of gold, oil, etc. in the ground
They hope to strike oil in the desert.
Their very own father had struck oil, made tons of money with it and did not even want to give some to his children.
to light a match in order to produce fire
I struck a match and lit the candle.
Their instant reaction was to park the car, put their raincoats on, get out and strike a few useless matches: they were their last light resource apart from the lightning in the sky and the weak headlights.
If something bad strikes something or someone, it affects them strongly and quickly.
The hurricane struck the coast at about eight in the morning.
And there had been the blight which struck half of the plantation.
a period of time when people are not working because they want more money, better working conditions, etc.
The city's bus drivers have been on strike for three weeks.
a teachers' strike
Indeed, the bus company has planned a strike.
someone who is on strike
Managers have threatened to sack the strikers.
There were also people who agreed with the strikers.
a football player whose job is to try to score goals
He is a skilled striker.
Then their striker scored.
easily noticed
There are striking similarities between the two cases.
There's a striking resemblance between them.
The most striking thing was the fact that I filed it.
very thin rope used for tying things
a parcel tied with string
a ball/piece of string
In only two days, our relationship was like a strong string that can never be cut.
a piece of wire that is part of a musical instrument
guitar/violin strings
The guitarist, who had just broken one string of his guitar, began to drink some alcohol.
a number of similar things
a string of questions
As a writer, she's enjoyed a string of successes.
Cities have grown, bringing with this growth a string of problems which were not thought of years ago.
to secretly use the influence that you have over important people to get something or to help someone
I may be able to pull a few strings, if you need the money urgently.
This isn't secret: I thought some of these ideas might be of interest and perhaps an article about them in your newspaper would pull the necessary strings at the City Hall to produce some very much needed changes.
If there are no strings attached to an offer or arrangement, there is nothing that is unpleasant that you have to accept.
I'll drive you home - no strings attached.
It is not that often that one comes across true 'no strings attached' generosity.
a long, narrow piece of something
a strip of paper
After that workers had to use the most basic tools and their hands to produce socks from the strips of silk.
a long, straight area of colour
The zebra is a wild African horse with black and white stripes.
I don't like clothes with stripes, because I think that's a little old-fashioned.
to try very hard to do or achieve something
to strive for happiness/peace
We are constantly striving to improve our service.
The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, who strives valiantly, ... who, at best, knows the joys of high achievement, and who, at worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly.
a sudden problem in your brain that changes the flow of blood and makes you unable to move part of your body
She suffered/had a stroke which left her unable to speak.
I'm sure there's a high risk of a heart attack or a stroke if you go on the way you are going now.
a style of swimming
What stroke do you prefer?
Although both may know how to swim, the professional, who was trained in proper strokes and hydrodynamics, will definitely turn out the better swimmer.
something good that happens to you by chance
He had exactly the part that I needed so that was a stroke of luck.
After a one-hour interview she was asked whether she could be starting work the very next day. A real stroke of luck.
a movement that you make against something with your hand, a pen, brush, etc.
a brush stroke
The power of the brush strokes and the intense energy in the image made me sigh with adoration.
to gently move your hand over a surface
Stroke the dog if you like, it won't bite.
He stroked her hair.
She lovingly stroked Chris's face with the tips of her fingers.
And do not forget to stroke your cat!
to walk somewhere in a slow and relaxed way
They strolled along the beach.
Some of us were a bit upset because they wanted some free time to stroll around the shops or have a chat over a drink.
a slow, relaxed walk somewhere
We went for a stroll around the city centre.
In the evening you can take a stroll to a vineyard nearby and authentic country food is available there.
A strong person or animal is physically powerful.
strong arms/legs
Are you strong enough to lift this table on your own?
She must be very strong to carry such a weight on her back.
I like this game because the story is very good end the protagonist is so strong!
A strong object does not break or get damaged easily.
a strong box/chair
The window is made from very strong glass so it won't shatter.
In winter I wear big jackets, gloves, warm trousers and strong boots.
very noticeable or powerful
strong coffee
There's a strong smell of burning.
I like quite strong colours.
I can give you stronger pain-killing drugs if these aren't strong enough.
It's surprising what strong memories a photograph can produce.
My grandmother had a strong influence/effect on my early childhood.
Moreover I like clothes with strong colours e.g. red and green.
produced using a lot of power
a strong kick/blow
Her voice was clear and strong.
Strong winds are forecast in the area for the next few days.
Unluckily, the rest of the days were cloudy and with strong winds.
Strong relationships last for a long time, and are not easily spoiled.
Throughout the crisis, their marriage remained strong.
Actually, now our relationship is very strong.
of a good quality or level and likely to be successful or effective
a strong economy
They're a very strong team.
She's the strongest candidate we've interviewed for the post.
My reason for applying for this trip is that I am very interested in meeting people from different countries and as I have a strong background in languages I would be very helpful in the communication field.
A strong feeling, belief, or opinion is felt in a very deep and serious way.
She has strong opinions/views about religion.
Nowadays the importance of family life is a matter which arouses fiercely strong passions.
If a person or their personality is strong, they are confident and able to deal with problems well.
All my aunts were strong women.
He has a strong personality, but don't let him bully you.
Mary was a strong and intelligent woman. She was stronger and her personality was more developed than her aunt's.
words that some people might consider to be offensive
The movie contains strong language.
But what I do see is local kids standing by the corner, chatting, smoking fags and using strong language.
something that someone is very good at
Cooking is not my strong point.
She's got a lot of strong points, more than weaknesses.
something that is very likely to happen
There's a strong possibility of rain this afternoon.
a lot of opposition/support, etc.
There has been strong opposition to the cuts.
Therefore, in spite of strong opposition by the car companies and people's egoistic interests, car traffic should be gradually reduced and eventually prohibited.
continuing to be successful or healthy after a long time
The club was set up in 1987, and it's still going strong.
He's 93 and still going strong!
I am proud of him and happy that he is still going strong.
very much or in a very serious way
They strongly believe their children should make choices for themselves.
Many locals are strongly opposed to the development.
I strongly disagree with the statement saying that "At school, students should only study what they enjoy".
relating to the structure of something
structural damage
The last five years have seen big structural changes in the company.
Moreover, Hong Kong has been undergoing various structural changes and economic issues since the financial turmoil in 1998.
the way that parts of something are arranged or put together
the grammatical structure of a sentence
They have a very old-fashioned management structure.
On the other hand, as far as the Greek language is concerned, I think it would be very hard for you and for everybody to learn it because of its difficult and very complicated grammar, vocabulary and structure.
a building or something that has been built
The house was a wooden structure.
For example, for most foreign visitors to Japan I think it is a wonderful experience to go to Nara city and see the world's oldest and biggest wooden structure, or to see traditional Noh dance and Kabuki play.
to arrange something in an organized way
How is the course structured?
Since women in the Western countries started working in the 70s, there has been a big change in the way our family life is structured.
organized so that the parts relate well to each other
a structured series of lectures
The exchange of political or economic ideas, as well as new technology, can provide the basis for a structured development of which could emerge a just and truly happy society.
to try very hard to do something difficult
He's been struggling to pay off his debts.
Fish struggle for survival when the water level drops in the lake.
Think about the people in the poor countries! They struggle to survive.
to fight someone when they are holding you
He struggled with his attacker who then ran off.
I bit his hand and ran to the phone. He reached me and we struggled for 10 minutes.
to use a lot of effort to defeat someone or prevent something
For years she struggled with/against the establishment to get her theories accepted.
He is struggling with an ankle injury.
Just like Mahatma Gandhi, who advocated non-violent methods of struggle, Picasso struggled against Fascism by peaceful means, namely with his art.
when you try very hard to do something difficult
It was a real struggle to stay awake during the film.
The people of this country will continue in their struggle for independence.
She never gave up the struggle to have her son freed from prison.
Their life was a severe financial struggle, and Tom's dream was to run somewhere far away.
a physical or mental fight
a struggle with an armed robber
the struggle between good and evil
Clearly there will be a power struggle within the party.
My friend started to walk into the water when suddenly a crocodile grabbed her leg. After a long struggle, she managed to get herself up on land.
determined not to change your ideas, plans, etc., although other people want you to
He can be very stubborn sometimes.
They have massive rows because they're both so stubborn.
Anyway, Alex was too stubborn to give up and it was like talking to a brick wall.
the quality of being stubborn
We were infuriated by his stubbornness.
Henry's words do not fail to show his royal stubbornness, only comparable to that of a mule.
not able to move anywhere
This door seems to be stuck - can you help me push it open?
My key got stuck in the lock.
Seven of us were stuck in the lift for over an hour.
I hate being stuck behind a desk - I'd rather work outside.
You want to go to your job, to an important appointment or to the hospital because you have a health problem and you are always stuck in traffic.
not able to continue reading, answering questions, etc. because something is too difficult
I keep getting stuck on difficult words.
I have got stuck so many times. However, whenever I got stuck, I said to myself that nobody could speak a foreign language fluently from the beginning.
to have to deal with someone or something unpleasant because no one else wants to
Whenever we eat out, I always get stuck with the bill.
Therefore you are stuck with "aunt Mabel" having fun while pulling your leg. What you mustn't do in this sort of situation is lose your temper.
a person who is learning at a college or university, or sometimes at a school
a law student
an undergraduate student
a postgraduate student
a student teacher
He was a student at the University of Chicago.
I'm a student at a college in Gloucester.
a room where television/radio programmes or music recordings are made
She spent three months in the studio working on her latest album.
a studio audience
He offered me a contract and asked me to go to his music studio to record a CD.
a fim company or a place where films are made
a film studio
We will visit a local film studio.
a room where an artist, designer or photographer works
She has a studio at the back of the house where she does her painting.
I'll be very happy if you can give me a chance to use the camp's art studio and hope you'll be able to prepare some materials like oil paints, canvas and brushes for me.
the work that you do while you are at a college or university
I'm enjoying my studies a lot more this year.
I need some money to buy a new computer for my studies.
a room in a house where you can read or work
Alec was in the study, reading.
As I don't have a study to myself, I have decided to buy a desk with two or three drawers.
when you learn about a subject, usually at school or university
the study of English literature
Everyone had to include the study of many disciplines.
when someone examines a subject in detail in order to discover new information
a five-year study of the relationship between wildlife and farming
Some studies have suggested a link between certain types of artificial sweetener and cancer.
But, as a recent study by scientists has shown, the growing lack of ozone is also due to the emissions produced by all the private cars.
to learn about a subject, especially on an educational course or by reading books
to study biology/chemistry
Next term we shall study plants and how they grow.
She's been studying for her doctorate for three years already.
He lives in Galicia, but now he's here in Cambridge to study English like me.
to examine a subject in detail in order to discover new information
Researchers have been studying how people under stress make decisions.
In zoos, they are not just shown to the public: scientists study their behaviour so as to understand what the particular animal really needs to survive.
to look at or read through something very carefully
I want time to study this contract thoroughly before signing it.
He studied her face for signs of guilt.
The first thing I did when I arrived there was to study the city map, and then I went out for a walk.
used to refer to a substance or a group of things or ideas, etc. without saying exactly what they are
There's sticky stuff all over the chair.
We'll have to carry all our camping stuff.
This week in class, we're discussing articles about industrial pollution, global warming, and stuff like that.
Do you want help bringing your stuff in from the van?
All that stuff she has been saying about Lee is rubbish.
I enjoyed the harbour most, you know. I like watching boats and stuff like that.
to know a lot about a subject, or to be very good at doing something
She's an excellent teacher - she really knows her stuff.
The thing was that she should have been be able to tell them what to do; she never doubted her own abilities. She knew 'her stuff' all right.
to push something into a small space, or to fill a container with something, often in a forceful or careless way
He stuffed the papers into his briefcase and left.
This case is absolutely full - I can't stuff another thing into it.
A casserole stood on the stove waiting for his arrival and the freezer and fridge were stuffed full with food for the week he would be here.
to step badly and almost fall over
Mary stumbled on the loose rocks.
My attic was so dark that I stumbled and fell.
to make a mistake, such as pausing or repeating a word, while speaking or performing
He kept stumbling over the same word.
One of the new-stars worried so much that she began stumbling over the words in the middle of her hit.
very surprised and shocked
We were stunned by the news of her death.
I was stunned and gaped at him with blank horror.
very beautiful or attractive
a stunning dress
a stunning view over the bay of Saint Tropez
She's absolutely stunning.
I think that it would be ideal for you to go there and take some pictures of it since the architecture is absolutely stunning!
silly or not intelligent
How could you be so stupid?
Whose stupid idea was it to travel at night?
She was really stupid to quit her job like that.
It was a stupid thing to do.
The coach said that we must learn to be like Rambo! But I think that's stupid, because in football you can't be like Rambo.
the state of being silly or unwise
The accident was caused by my own stupidity.
The most important point however was that I found out that our two countries have similar problems and that prejudices against any country or people are based on stupidity and intolerance.
a way of doing something that is typical of a particular person, group, place, or period
a style of painting/writing
Jon has an interesting hands-on style of management.
I love Hip Hop music. This style of music is my life.
a way of designing hair, clothes, furniture, etc.
She's had her hair cut in a really nice style.
the latest styles
The classic black dress is always in style.
And they like the same style of clothes as I do.
the quality of being attractive and fashionable or behaving in a way which makes people admire you
She's got style.
But when he came back, his popularity was increased. That's reasonable, because he's got style, he is authentic and brilliant.
to prevent someone from enjoying themselves, especially by going somewhere with them
Are you sure you don't mind me coming with you? I'd hate to cramp your style.
I would never want neither to cramp their style nor to make them feel unimportant, lonely or lost.
fashionable and attractive
a stylish black suit
The film's direction is subtle and stylish.
I pay attention to fashionable and stylish clothes, of course, if they don't seem strange or unusual.
without being consciously aware of something
I think that subconsciously I knew I was in danger.
It is probably only wishful thinking that most people would wake up every morning wondering how to make the world a better place. In fact, most of us do it subconsciously.
an area of knowledge which is studied in school, college or university
My favourite subjects at school were history and geography.
At college, I like studying English because it's a very interesting subject but I don't like studying Art.
the person or thing which performs the action described by the verb
'Bob' is the subject of the sentence 'Bob threw the ball'.
what someone is writing or talking about
Our subject for discussion is homelessness.
She has made a series of documentaries on the subject of family relationships.
She likes swimming and practising yoga. In fact, this was the subject of our first lesson.
to start talking about a different subject
I'd tried to explain the situation, but he just changed the subject.
Well, changing the subject, I accidentally broke your beautiful vase. I'm really sorry, I'll try to find another vase that looks similar.
to stop talking about something, especially because it is annoying or upsetting someone
I don't want to talk about it any more - let's drop the subject.
often affected by something, especially something unpleasant
Departure times are subject to alteration.
With regard to programme items subject to weather conditions - such as the boat trip on River Thames - please make sure that an alternative programme is foreseen in case of cancellation.
only able to happen if something else happens
The pay rise is subject to approval by management.
a person who is written about in a book or who is shown in a picture
Rembrandt is the subject of her latest novel.
No matter wherever we go, enjoying the beauty of the city, walking through the Jewish district, discussing the subject of a painting or just sitting in silence, the world is real only with him.
to make someone or something experience something unpleasant
In prison, he was subjected to beatings and interrogations.
Homeless people are subjected to a very harsh and unhealthy style of life.
influenced by someone's beliefs or feelings, instead of facts
a subjective judgment
I really love my city and country, but I am afraid I'm a little bit subjective.
to send a document, plan, etc. to someone so that they can consider it
Applications must be submitted before January 1st.
The developers submitted building plans to the council for approval.
According to my friends and professors, I am hardworking and never fail to submit my essays on time.
to accept that someone has control over you and do what they tell you to do
He was forced to submit to a full body search.
Kingshaw has to submit to the role of victim once more.
happening after something else
The mistakes were corrected in a subsequent edition of the book.
With a rapid economic growth and a subsequent increase in income level, working life in Korea has changed dramatically.
after that
In 1982 he was arrested and subsequently convicted on drug trafficking charges.
Like nightmarish creatures, the McDonald's have sprung up from the ground in a little over two decades, and subsequently inundated the Media with adverts for their "food" products.
money given by a government or other organization to pay part of the cost of something
housing subsidies for the poor
The rest of the money could be spent on subsidies for home owners and tenants and offering loans with a lower interest rate.
a solid, liquid, or gas
an organic/chemical substance
a dangerous substance
What sort of substance could withstand those temperatures?
Chemical substances are added to our food.
the most important part of what someone has said or written
The substance of his argument is that men are more logical than women.
large in amount
a substantial sum of money
The first draft of his novel needed a substantial amount of rewriting.
The findings show a substantial difference between the opinions of men and women.
The taxis: Considering that you are willing to spend quite a substantial amount of money, this is the best transport one can get.
to a large degree
The new rules will substantially change how we do things.
The quality of the individual classes differed substantially.
to use someone or something instead of another person or thing
You can substitute oil for butter in this recipe.
Dayton was substituted for Williams in the second half of the match.
My opinion is that we shouldn't substitute one for the other, but read one and watch the other.
a thing or person that is used instead of another thing or person
Tofu can be used as a meat substitute in vegetarian recipes.
Vitamins should not be used as a substitute for a healthy diet.
I had been looking forward to seeing his performance for ages, so as soon as I realized there was a substitute on the stage, I was really disappointed.
when you use someone or something instead of another person or thing
The coach has made two substitutions in the team.
The gradual substitution of the old bus fleet with a modern one would be a serious effort, and it would demand buckets of money.
words shown at the bottom of a cinema or television screen to explain what is being said
It's a French film with English subtitles.
Another way of improving language is to project each film with subtitles.
not obvious or easy to notice
a subtle change/difference
a subtle hint
You will have to find your own subtle balance between the number of radiators you use and the opening of windows to create a suitable atmosphere.
A subtle flavour, colour, etc. is delicate and not strong or bright.
The garlic has a more subtle flavour than you might imagine.
What attracts your attention most are the colours: warm, pleasant to the eye, subtle and somewhat unrealistic.
clever in a way that does not attract attention
a subtle way of solving the problem
That is indeed a subtle talent, being able to balance between deciding and listening.
an area on the edge of a large town or city where people who work in the town or city often live
Box Hill is a suburb of Melbourne.
We drove from middle-class suburbs to a very poor inner-city area.
Peterhof is only a small suburb of St. Petersburg and it is not famous for its nightlife.
a passage under a road or railway for people to walk through
We could take the subway.
I began to walk along that narrow and dark subway.
to achieve what you are trying to achieve
Lucy has the skill and determination to succeed.
She finally succeeded in passing the exam.
You need to be pretty tough to succeed in today's business world.
I hope I will succeed in the P.E.T.
when you achieve what you want to achieve
The success of almost any project depends largely on its manager.
I've been trying to persuade her to take on more staff, but so far without success.
I'm not having much success in communicating with him at the moment.
The success rate for this operation is very low.
I searched in the taxi-cab and in the company with no success.
something that has a good result or that is very popular
Both films have been a big/huge box-office success in this country.
She's keen to make a success of this project.
That salmon dish was a success, wasn't it?
And lastly the rest of the space we can use for further information and details about the history of our school and our successes in the past.
achieving what you want to achieve
a successful operation
My second attempt at making pizza was more successful.
This year's harvest was one of the most successful since the record crop of 1985.
I am very happy every time I return from a successful shopping-tour.
having achieved a lot or made a lot of money through your work
a successful businesswoman
a successful career
He runs a very successful computer business.
I would like to finish by asking Mr. Smith to talk a bit about his life and his successful career.
very popular
a successful film
He's the author of several hugely successful children's books.
I suppose the facts about your film career, especially about your first film and your most successful film would be pretty interesting as well.
in a way that is successful
A number of patients have been successfully treated with the new drug.
As you can see, I managed to do the project successfully.
happening after each other
He has just won the World Championship for the third successive year.
Their bodies no longer get worn out by successive pregnancies thanks to birth control medicines and techniques.
someone who has a position or job after someone else
He is her most likely successor.
Cleopatra fell in love with him but he was murdered by his nephew and successor Octavio.
an organization, product, etc. that follows and takes the place of an earlier one
This range of computers is very fast, but their successors will be even faster.
The natural successor of the car was first thought of in the late seventies, but due to lack of computing power for the control systems, the dual mode vehicle was never made.
to not be able to stop yourself doing something
I succumbed to temptation and had some cheesecake.
As days went by, I became more anxious and finally had to succumb to the urge to go to the game.
to die or suffer badly from an illness
Many of them succumbed to cholera.
Could he have succumbed to the cold? or maybe hunger?
used to emphasize a quality of someone or something
That's such a good film.
She's such a nice person.
It seems like such a long way to drive for just one day.
Oh Richard, you're such an idiot!
I'd put on such a lot of weight that I couldn't get into my trousers.
I had such a good birthday this year.
for example
She can't eat dairy products, such as milk and cheese.
That sum of money is to cover costs such as travel and accommodation.
My friends gave me lots of things, such as: t-shirts, shorts and books.
used to refer to something or someone that you were just talking about, or something or someone of that type
It's difficult to know how to treat such cases.
I tried to tell her in such a way that she wouldn't be upset.
Moreover we can plan different events where we invite people who aren't members and we can use such events to bring in new members.
used to emphasize that something does not exist
There's no such thing as ghosts!
But when I asked for these, I was told that no such thing existed and so the advertisement was once again proved wrong.
a very
She's ever such a good dancer.
The psychiatrist was a very nice young girl that helped me ever such a lot.
used to refer to something or someone that you were just talking about, or something or someone of that type
Our lunch was such that we don't really need an evening meal.
He is an employee of this company, and should be treated as such.
His circumstances are such that he has no need to work.
In my opinion the Microwave oven is the eighth wonder of the world and should be celebrated as such.
to have something in your mouth and use your tongue, lips, etc. to pull on it or to get liquid, air, etc. out of it
to suck a sweet/lollipop
to suck your thumb
He laughed at me and told me that he poisoned the pages of the diary so he would suck his fingers to turn the pages and die.
done or happening quickly and unexpectedly
His sudden death at the age of 53 came as a terrible shock to her.
There was a sudden change in their plans.
And Angie's leaving work in two weeks? It's a bit sudden, isn't it.
After arriving in Vienna, Martins was really shocked when he got to know about his friend's sudden death.
suddenly and unexpectedly
All of a sudden, he came bursting in through the door.
All of a sudden, a weird creature popped into his dream.
quickly and unexpectedly
I don't remember much about the accident - it all happened so suddenly.
I suddenly realized how late it was.
I was just drifting off to sleep when suddenly I heard a crash outside.
Suddenly a dog appeared in front of us.
Suddenly a car appeared at the end of the street.
to take legal action against someone and try to get money from them because they have harmed you
He's threatening to sue the newspaper for slander.
If you do not pay attention to any of my complaints and if I do not hear from you within 15 working days, I will not hesitate to sue you.
to have an illness or other health problem
She suffers from severe depression.
She's been suffering from cancer for two years.
The doctors told my parents that my aunt was suffering from cancer so they had to stay with her.
to experience pain or unpleasant emotions
She really suffers in the winter when it's cold and her joints get stiff.
I think he suffered quite a lot when his wife left him.
If you're not happy with it, you should complain. Don't just suffer in silence.
I am sure it would suffer living in a small flat in a big city, with no park nearby to go to every day for a walk.
to experience something bad
The party suffered a crushing defeat in the last election.
Twenty-five policemen suffered minor injuries during the protest.
The city suffered another blow last month with the closure of the local car factory.
If you will insist on eating three helpings of dessert, I'm afraid you'll have to suffer the consequences!
When you're working such long hours, it's almost inevitable that your marriage will start to suffer.
I think that if we don't do more than we are doing now, we will suffer the consequences and it'll be too late to do something about it.
someone who suffers from an illness or other health problem
AIDS/cancer sufferers
The body becomes more and more frail and prone to illnesses so that the last ten years of the unnaturally prolonged life are spent in pain and agony, with the sufferer quite often acutely aware of his decaying and incapable body.
when someone experiences pain or unpleasant emotions
The war will cause widespread human suffering.
There had been too much suffering for days, months, years.
as much as is necessary
This recipe should be sufficient for five people.
It was thought that he'd committed the crime but there wasn't sufficient evidence to convict him.
To resolve that, try to have a sufficient amount of sleep so that both your body and mind will keep fit.
as much as is necessary
McGeechan has not recovered sufficiently to play in the semifinal tomorrow.
The case was sufficiently serious to warrant investigation by the police.
As for me, I like to think that my situation will be better than those who are not educated sufficiently.
a group of letters that you add to the end of a word to make another word
The suffix '-ness' added to the end of the word 'sweet' forms the word 'sweetness', changing an adjective into a noun.
a very sweet substance used to give flavour to food and drinks
I don't take sugar in my coffee, thanks.
I like to eat chicken with bread and tea without sugar.
to express an idea or plan for someone to consider
I suggest (that) we wait a while before we make any firm decisions.
Liz suggested (that) I try the shop on Mill Road.
He suggested having the meeting at his house.
I also suggest you should go to the Alps because there is a lot of beautiful scenery and if it's winter there are many places to ski.
to say that someone or something is suitable for something
to suggest someone for a job
Can you suggest a good hotel?
Might I suggest a white wine with your salmon, sir?
I suggest the "Renoir".
to make something seem likely to be true
There's no absolute proof, but all the evidence suggests (that) he's guilty.
Something about what he said suggested that he wasn't happy.
So animals cannot be as unhappy as the topic suggests.
an idea or plan that someone suggests
We don't know where to eat out tonight - have you got any suggestions?
Clara made some very helpful suggestions.
They didn't like my suggestion that we should all share the cost.
I have a few favourite restaurants that I tend to go back to, but I'm always open to new suggestions.
Now I want to give you some suggestions that will be useful for you.
something that makes something seem likely to be true
There's no suggestion of any connection between the two men.
when you intentionally kill yourself
to attempt/commit suicide
The suicide rate among men between the ages of 16 and 25 has risen alarmingly.
Many suicides occur in prisons.
The savage thinks he can change it but fails and commits suicide by hanging himself.
a jacket and trousers or a jacket and skirt that are made from the same material
She wore a dark blue suit.
All the businessmen were wearing pinstripe suits.
I got a beautiful suit.
to do the same as someone else has just done
If other shops lower their prices, we will have to follow suit.
Bitten by a insurmountable curiosity she goes to India to find out about her and she even follows suit: she ends up in the Himalayas driven by a strong desire to know more.
to be convenient or suitable for a particular person, situation or occasion
We could go now or this afternoon - whatever time suits you best.
The city lifestyle seems to suit her - she's certainly looking very well.
"How about eight o'clock outside the cinema?" "That suits me fine."
If you find it difficult to arrange your visit for these two dates, please let us know which other Sunday would suit you most.
to make someone look more attractive
You should wear more red - it suits you.
Short skirts don't really suit me - I haven't got the legs for them.
They usually wear casual clothes such as jeans, T-shirts and trainers, because they believe that these kinds of clothes suit them best.
to be right for someone or something
These plants are better suited to a warm climate.
In my opinion mixed schools are best suited to the current environment.
the state of being suitable
Nobody could doubt her suitability for the job.
His suitability for the post mentioned in your advertisement is so obvious that it strikes me as weird why you hesitate.
acceptable or right for someone or something
Is the film suitable for children?
It's a nice enough dress but it's not really suitable for a wedding.
I think they are more suitable for boys than for girls.
in a way that is acceptable or right
a suitably qualified person
Was he dressed suitably?
Nevertheless, a lot of people think animals are not suitably looked after - they have to live in small spaces and, moreover, the weather is often rather different from what animals are used to.
a large rectangular case with a handle for carrying clothes and possessions while travelling
Have you packed/unpacked your suitcase yet?
Dear Juliana, I think I left my suitcase in your house.
an amount of money
Huge sums of money are spent on national defence.
On retirement, he will receive the sum of £50 000 from the company.
My poor aunt Yutta has died and she's left me a big sum of money.
to describe briefly the most important facts or characteristics of something
The purpose of the conclusion is to sum up the main points of your essay.
To sum up, young people are interested in many things but in my opinion, music, TV and clothes are issues about which they care more than others.
to describe briefly the main facts or ideas of something
I'd like to briefly summarize the arguments for and against.
This report will attempt to summarise the findings, the trends and changes as well as analyse and explain the reasons for the changes between the periods and evaluate their impact on our lives.
a short, clear description that gives the main facts or ideas about something
He gave a brief summary of events.
Below is a summary of the most relevant points and recommendations.
the season of the year between spring and autumn, when the weather is warmest
We usually go away in (the) summer.
Last summer they went to Australia.
I love these warm summer nights.
It was a perfect summer's day.
I like going to the park in the summer.
the top of a mountain
The climbers hope to reach the summit before nightfall.
For instance, heliboarding - that is, when a helicopter carries you to the summit of a mountain and you slide down on your own - is gaining popularity.
an important meeting between the leaders of two or more governments
a two-day summit
a summit meeting
In 1994 the UN held a summit on social development in Copenhagen.
to officially order someone to come to a place
He was summoned to a meeting.
As a result, my parents were summoned to see the headmaster for their daughter's misconduct and bad influence on other students.
to ask for someone or something that you need to help you in an emergency
They summoned an ambulance.
She immediately summoned a doctor.
The villagers were also relieved that a 'bomoh' or witch-doctor had been summoned to exorcise the pontianak.
to make a great effort to produce a quality to help you deal with a situation
He tried to summon up the courage to speak to her.
She summoned up all her strength and pushed against the door.
I summoned up my courage and asked her.
the large, bright star that shines in the sky during the day and provides light and heat for the Earth, or the light and heat that comes from the sun
The sun rises in the east and sets in the west.
We thought we'd go out for a walk while the sun was shining.
Shall we go and sit out in the sun?
I think I've had a bit too much sun today - I've got a headache.
When the sun is shining I like walking in Finsbury Park.
to sit or lie in the sun so that your skin becomes brown
We spent the day sunbathing on the beach.
The weather is very good here, so I hope to go to the beach with my mother in the mornings to sunbathe.
the day of the week after Saturday and before Monday, when most people in Western countries do not go to work
They go walking every Sunday.
We're going to visit my aunt and uncle on Sunday.
She plays tennis every Sunday evening.
dark glasses that you wear to protect your eyes from the sun
Make sure you wear sunglasses outside.
I left my sunglasses in your house yesterday.
the light from the sun
The garden was bathed in sunlight.
There are many sources of light in this world such as sunlight, moonlight, and candle light. ... Nowadays, the electric light has become part of our lives, especially at night.
bright because of light from the sun
We're having the party in the garden, so I'm praying it'll be sunny.
It was a lovely sunny day.
The weather is always sunny.
when the sun appears in the morning and the sky becomes light
I always get up before sunrise.
I have also decided to buy something new. I would like to have a poster, maybe a big black and white photo or a picture of a sunrise, what do you think about that?
when the sun disappears in the evening and the sky becomes dark
They close the park at sunset.
We can go to Focone Beach, where the sunset is so beautiful.
the light and heat that come from the sun
The children were out playing in the sunshine.
You know I love sunshine. It's my energy source.
excellent
He is a superb dancer.
Taylor scored a superb goal at the end of the first half.
My homemade pizzas are superb, although I say it myself, and I would like to make one for the two of us.
If someone is superficial, they never think about things that are serious or important.
He's a very superficial person.
Are they the role models of an open-minded public or do they set wrong examples by encouraging superficial values based on appearance rather than personality, possessions rather than deeds, and wealth rather than virtues?
not complete and involving only the most obvious things
superficial knowledge
a superficial resemblance
I only have a superficial knowledge of French.
in a way that is not deep or basic
Superficially, he is impressive, but his knowledge is really very slight.
Indeed too many people today travel too quickly and too superficially to learn anything from their experience.
not needed, or more than is needed
superfluous details/information
It was a very good party and it might be superfluous to add that I got terribly drunk and didn't stagger home until seven in the morning.
better than other things
This is clearly the work of a superior artist.
She was chosen for the job because she was the superior candidate.
For all babies, breastfeeding is far superior to bottlefeeding.
The government troops were superior in numbers.
Our service is superior in terms of price, but unfortunately doesn't have some features other competitors' services have.
thinking that you are better than other people
She has a very superior manner.
someone in a higher position than you at work
I will have to report this to my superiors.
If you need a reference, please call my superior on the following number: 0181/340'72'59.
when something is better than other things
the superiority of modern design
I believe a state which felt certain about the superiority of democratic values would not need to forbid any text, or any creative work for that matter.
when you think that you are better than other people
She has an air of superiority.
She had an air of superiority and I found her conceited as she was not talking to anybody else except for the teacher.
the form of an adjective or adverb which expresses that the thing or person being described has more of the particular quality than anything or anyone else of the same type
'Richest' is the superlative of 'rich'.
The whole article was full of superlatives.
a large shop that sells food, drink, products for the home, etc.
I do my weekly shopping at the supermarket.
There are many shops and three supermarkets.
used to describe things that cannot be explained by our knowledge of science or nature
supernatural powers/forces
The book consists of six completely different 'ghost stories' which involve ghosts and supernatural phenomena, something that attracts young readers.
things that cannot be explained by our knowledge of science or nature
She's very interested in the supernatural.
to watch a person or activity to make certain that everything is done correctly, safely, etc.
The UN is supervising the distribution of aid by local agencies in the disaster area.
The children play while two teachers supervise.
Our main activity will be to supervise the 8 to 12 year olds during those activities.
when you supervise someone or something
He needs constant supervision.
Students are not allowed to handle these chemicals unless they are under the supervision of a teacher.
The little one was built especially for you, so that you can leave your children under the supervision of two well-trained lifeguards.
a person whose job is to supervise someone or something
His supervisor told him to work faster.
I held the post of general supervisor in a campus in Oxford two years ago, and now I am working as a receptionist in a luxurious hotel.
a meal that you eat in the evening
What are we having for supper?
They had an early supper before going to the theatre.
Well, I hope you'll come to my house to visit me and my family one day next week and have supper with us. What about Friday?
an extra amount or part added to something
to take a vitamin supplement
a newspaper with a colour supplement
No miracle promises for overnight improvements, no food supplement and pills will bring the desired results.
to add to something to make it larger or better
He supplements his income by working in a bar in the evenings.
He was moonlighting to supplement his income.
added to something
supplementary materials
This has also been noted by the local authorities, which has resulted in a supplementary grant to the Language Department of our college.
a person or company that provides something that people want or need
They used to be a leading supplier of military equipment.
I have been employed by the Swedish fruit supplier "Northern Fruit Corp.'' for the last 6 years.
an amount of something that is available for use
a supply of water
Our food supplies were running out.
In London, demand for cheap housing far outstrips supply.
Please send me a list of the clothes needed and/or supplies.
to provide things that people want or need, often over a long period of time
to supply food/drugs to people
Electrical power is supplied by underground cables.
Three people have been arrested for supplying arms to the terrorists.
At the beginning of term, students are supplied with a list of books that they are expected to read.
I would be able to supply you with a reference from my employer.
to like a particular sports team, often going to see their matches
Which team do you support?
Also I saw another programme, it was talking about the history of Barcelona football club. I liked it very much because this is the team that I support.
to look after someone by paying for their food, clothes, etc.
He has a wife and four children to support.
Sara has to work hard to support her family.
to help someone, often when they are having problems
Alcoholics Anonymous is a group which supports people who are trying to stop drinking too much alcohol.
My family has always supported me in whatever I've wanted to do.
All Mum and Dad can do is support him in this next step of his life.
to agree with an idea, group, or person
Do you support their views on nuclear weapons?
The majority of people in the town strongly support the plans for a new sports centre.
I support this idea because I believe that it is the only way to stop the traffic in cities.
to give encouragement or financial help to someone or something because you want them to succeed
I think it's important to support local businesses by buying locally.
The drug company is supporting cancer research.
These films are more attractive for older viewers and support the local film business.
to help to show that something is true
There's no evidence to support his story.
All the claims made on your leaflet weren't at all supported by evidence.
to hold the weight of someone or something
Is this ladder strong enough to support me?
The church dome is supported by marble pillars.
When babies first learn to stand, they hold on to something to support themselves.
I put a bandage on my knee to support it when I play tennis.
Next, electricity is transported by high voltage cables supported by towers up to a transformer station.
help or encouragement given to someone when they are having problems
Carol gave me a lot of support when I lost my job.
She's been a great support to my mum since my dad died.
Mother needs our support now and I'll go as soon as I can AGREEMENT
agreement with an idea, group or person
Environmental groups are fast gaining support among young people.
Is there much public support for the proposal?
Support for the party leader has declined in recent weeks.
I signed a petition in support of the human rights campaign.
Dear Julian, I wanted to tell you that you have my moral support.
the money someone needs in order to buy food and clothes and pay for somewhere to live
He is dependent on his father for support.
Receiving my pocket money last week, I was thinking what would happen if I lost my father's support.
someone who likes a particular sports team and wants them to win
Manchester United supporters
Thousands of supporters have travelled to London for the cup final.
I'm a great supporter of Milan as you know, so you can imagine how I feel now.
someone who supports a particular idea, group or person
He is one of the Prime Minister's strongest supporters within industry.
According to supporters of Animal Rights, people wouldn't like being kept in zoos.
giving help or encouragement
a very supportive friend
The sports facilities were perfect, and the people working in the sport centre were very friendly and supportive.
used to show that you are not certain about something
It was quite interesting, I suppose.
I couldn't get any reply when I called Dan, so I suppose (that) he's gone out.
I'll travel by taxi and I don't know how long I'll stay there, two or three days, I suppose.
used to show agreement to something when you do not really want to
I suppose you're right.
"Can I come with you?" "I suppose so."
to be expected or intended to do something, especially when this does not happen
The drugs are supposed to reduce the pain.
She is supposed to finish the work by the 24th.
These batteries are supposed to last for a year.
How am I supposed to find that much money by the end of the week?
I'm supposed to go cycling with some friends of mine to Bondi.
to be expected to be something, especially because of a rule, agreement, etc.
The children are supposed to be at school by 8.45 a.m.
What are you doing out of bed? You're supposed to be asleep!
It was supposed to be a surprise... I had been in London for a long time.
to be considered by many people to be something
The scenery is supposed to be fantastic.
I knew that he had booked a table for two in one of the most expensive restaurants in town, where the food was supposed to be excellent.
If you are supposed to do something, the rules say that you should do it.
You're supposed to pay by the end of the month.
You're not supposed to smoke in here.
Unfortunately, the organizer came to me and let me know that I was not supposed to sell anything in that area.
to think that something is likely to be true
He found it a lot more difficult to get a job than he supposed it would be.
It is widely supposed (that) the minister will be forced to resign.
It is supposed that this man could have also been a chemist, as writings have been found and recovered with clues to what Da Vinci might have been doing in that field.
used to introduce an idea for someone to consider
Suppose he phones tonight. What should I say?
Supposing you get the train. If you ring me up straight away when you arrive, I will pick you up at the station.
used to show that you do not believe that something you have been told is true
Well, the tickets are supposedly in the mail.
"The Bride" sets out to kill the first of Bill's assassins, supposedly the most dangerous person in the world in terms of knives.
to control feelings so that they do not show
I could barely suppress my anger.
He tried to suppress his fear.
to prevent information from being known
to suppress evidence/news
I personally, would bring my child up as a person who is able to discuss and who does not suppress any criticism at all.
to stop someone or something by using force
The rebellion was suppressed by government forces.
With the fresh sound of Clarisse's words of freedom and thought, happiness and nature, there arises in Montag the need of making a move, of rebelling against a flat and empty system that suppresses the individuality of men.
certain
"What's wrong with him?" "I'm not sure."
I'm sure (that) I left my keys on the table.
I feel absolutely sure (that) you've made the right decision.
Simon isn't sure whether/if he'll be able to come to the party or not.
Are you sure about that?
It now seems sure (that) the election will result in another victory for the government.
I think it's in your room but I'm not sure.
to take action so that you are certain that something happens, is true, etc.
Make sure that you close all the windows before you leave.
So please make sure that you wear old clothes.
to be confident that something is true
He'll win this year, I'm sure of it.
I think that I would be a really useful person for your company. I'm sure of it.
to be confident of your own abilities, qualities, etc.
She seems a bit more sure of herself since she got a job.
He is a tall, dark man who walks with confidence and is sure of himself because of his success in the world of business.
something that is certain to happen
Death is the one sure thing about life.
There is only one sure thing, we are not able to even imagine what we will be able to do in the future to get communicated.
If you are sure to do something, it is certain that you will do it.
He's sure to go back there again.
What she does not know is that her ex-husband has a very serious type of cancer and is sure to pass away in a few months (that is why he agrees to spend his summer with his son, knowing it would be the last).
as expected
He said the book was on his desk, and sure enough, there it was.
And sure enough, these challenging problems come unsolicited most of the time.
used to show agreement
"Can I take this pen?" "Sure."
"Do you want to come swimming with us?" "Sure."
You asked me if I wanted to go to the cinema tonight. Sure!
without any doubts
I think he's Canadian but I don't know for sure.
One thing's for sure - once the baby's born, your lives will never be the same again.
For sure, you'll love Brazil.
used to show that you believe something is very likely
Surely they'd have called us by now to say they're not coming.
Surely you are interested in how we spent the rest of our holiday?
used to express surprise that something has happened or is going to happen
Surely you don't expect me to believe that?
Surely he wasn't expecting us to pay the whole amount?
Surely it doesn't mean that they have learnt the exciting news?
to look at information on the Internet by moving from one page to another using electronic links
Are you working or just surfing?
My favourite birthday present is a computer. I like it because I can surf on the net and I can play video games.
to ride on a wave as it comes towards land, while standing or lying on a special board
I spent the summer learning how to surf.
I really enjoyed learning how to surf, it was terrific.
the top or outside part of something
The sun was reflected on the surface of the water.
Tropical rainforests used to cover 10% of the Earth's surface.
The marble has a smooth, shiny surface.
Neil Armstrong was the first person to set foot on the surface of the moon.
When we came back to the surface we just looked like real miners.
what someone or something seems to be like when you do not know much about them
On the surface, he seemed very pleasant.
Miss Marple on the other hand is an old, nervous but gentle lady on the surface but inside that head of hers there is a brain as sharp as a knife, cutting through the mysteries she is involved in.
the sport of riding on a wave on a special board
Let's go surfing this afternoon.
My hobbies are surfing and football.
to increase very quickly
Prices surged on the stock exchange.
Followed by a dip briefly afterwards, the value surged to close to 100 million tonnes in 2002.
a large increase in something
a surge in spending
Also in technology, we have noticed a surge of the newest trends in even the smallest countries.
a doctor who is specially trained to perform medical operations
He is a leading surgeon at a London hospital.
I have been a surgeon for almost 20 years now, and I have worked in many different situations.
a place where doctors or other medical workers treat people
What time does the surgery open?
As she walked into the doctor's surgery, she began to explain her problem to the doctor and that she couldn't stand the idea of lice inhabiting her head.
when a doctor cuts your body open and repairs or removes something
heart surgery
The patient had/underwent surgery on his heart.
He made a good recovery after surgery to remove a brain tumour.
My mother had to go through gall-stone surgery in Finland, where she was spending her holiday.
the name that you and other members of your family all have
Her first name is Sarah but I don't know her surname.
You must send an e-mail with your name, address, phone and surname.
to be or do better than someone or something else
The book's success surpassed everyone's expectations.
I visited "The Acropol" restaurant two weeks ago and to my astonishment it surpassed all my expectations.
an amount of something that is more than you need
Every year we produce a huge surplus of meat.
The most developed countries are the ones who didn't have a surplus of food and they had to find a way of producing it.
an event that you did not expect to happen
I didn't know that my parents were coming - it was a lovely surprise.
Don't tell Anne we've arranged a party for her - I want it to be a surprise.
It was a nice surprise to get home and find the letter.
Last night's heavy snow came as a complete surprise.
Last month I had a beautiful surprise for my birthday because my sister bought me a new bike.
the feeling that you get when something happens that you did not expect
He looked at her in/with surprise.
He agreed to everything, (much) to my surprise.
He stared at me in surprise and didn't say anything.
to make someone feel surprise
The news surprised everyone.
It doesn't surprise me that she wants to leave.
It won't surprise anyone to learn that the offer has been rejected.
Then I saw a blue light that surprised me, I was scared. A strange creature was standing in front of me. It was fat and ugly and then it tried to grab me...
feeling surprise because something has happened that you did not expect
I was surprised at/by her response.
I'm not surprised (that) he didn't come.
I'm surprised to see you here, Carolina!
I wouldn't be surprised if he left the company.
She looked at him with a surprised expression on her face.
Hi Jo, I'm surprised you can't find the information about the art class.
not expected and making someone feel surprised
He gave a rather surprising answer.
It's hardly/not surprising (that) you're putting on weight, considering how much you're eating!
I must say that it's surprising to find you agreeing with me for once.
That was a little bit surprising because I'm pretty small and it's hard for me to find clothes that really fit me!
unexpectedly or in a way that is unusual
The restaurant turned out to be surprisingly cheap.
Not surprisingly, the jury found them guilty.
Surprisingly, I met a friend of mine from primary school.
to stop fighting and admit that you have been beaten
Rebel troops are refusing to surrender.
Without the fire Ralph and Piggy have to surrender and as Piggy now has lost his vision he becomes weak and vulnerable and he must die - "The weak must go to the wall".
to be or go everywhere around something or someone
Snow-capped mountains surround the city.
Early this morning, armed police surrounded the house in north London.
Gwen sat at her desk, surrounded by books and papers.
She said that she wanted to die surrounded by the people she loved.
The place I've enjoyed most is a small lake surrounded by very tall trees and a lot of bushes.
If a feeling or situation surrounds an event, it is closely connected with it.
Mystery still surrounds the exact circumstances of his death.
However, there was at this point nothing pleasant about the atmosphere surrounding the house.
in a position around something
A lot of the children at the school do not live in the town, but come in from the surrounding countryside.
If all of you would help by using these facillities, our village could be very attractive to people from surrounding villages, which could be very good for the economy of our village.
the place where someone or something is and the things that are in it
beautiful/pleasant surroundings
Have you got used to your new surroundings?
Some butterflies blend in with their surroundings so that it's difficult to see them.
The larger animals who aren't threatened should live in their natural surroundings.
an examination of opinions, behaviour, etc., made by asking people questions
A recent survey found/showed that 58% of people did not know where their heart is.
They are conducting/carrying out/doing a survey.
I have made a little survey on the subject of my report and I have found that most of the pupils of our school consider that the region and the area around the school should be filmed first.
to ask people questions in order to find out about their opinions or behaviour
75% of midwives surveyed were in favour of home births.
However, a small amount of those surveyed (20%) expressed the opinion that they do not have any problems concerning transport or housing.
to look at or examine something carefully
I got out of the car to survey the damage.
This means that we need a small team to survey the area first, and I am very happy to lead this team.
when someone or something continues to live or exist, especially after a difficult or dangerous situation
The doctors told my wife I had a 50/50 chance of survival.
His main concern is to ensure his own political survival.
For many animals zoos are their only hope for survival: for example, the Chinese panda or white eagle.
to continue to live or exist, especially after almost dying or being destroyed
The baby was born with a heart problem and only survived for a few hours.
These plants cannot survive in very cold conditions.
The front passengers were lucky to survive the accident.
The family are struggling to survive on very little money.
They struggle to survive.
someone who continues to live after almost dying because of an accident, illness, etc.
Rescuers have given up hope of finding any more survivors.
He was the sole survivor of the plane crash.
She's a cancer survivor/a survivor of cancer.
We were the only survivors.
to think that something is probably true, or is likely to happen
They suspected (that) he was lying.
I suspect she won't come - she's very busy.
"Do you think she'll have told them?" "I suspect not/so."
He apologised, but he had some family problems and in fact he couldn't come. I suspect that's his mother - he didn't say clearly.
to think that someone may have committed a crime or done something bad
No one knows who killed her, but the police suspect her husband.
The police suspect him of carrying out two bomb attacks.
But other people were suspected of having killed them.
to not trust someone or something
She suspected his motives for offering to help.
someone who may have committed a crime
He's the prime suspect in the murder case.
He had never thought that Doctor Quimper might have been a suspect, as well.
to not allow someone to go to work or school for a period of time because they have done something wrong
She was suspended from school for fighting.
He was suspended for four matches after arguing with the referee.
The director decided to suspend the girl because she had been rude.
to stop something happening or existing for a short time
The semi-final was suspended because of bad weather.
The ferry service has been suspended for the day because of bad weather.
The President has suspended the constitution and assumed total power.
I'm suspending judgment on the book I'm reading until I've finished it.
At first the electrical and gas power were cut off and the transport was suspended but now everything is working.
the feeling of excitement or nervousness that you have when you are waiting for something to happen
There is a gradual build-up of suspense throughout the film.
What's your answer then? Don't keep me in suspense.
Exciting, fun and full of suspense, I'm sure I'm going to enjoy it, and remember it as a very good time.
a belief or idea that something may be true
I have a suspicion that he only asked me out because my brother persuaded him to.
I asked my mother what had happened and she confirmed my suspicions.
a feeling or belief that someone has committed a crime or done something wrong
"I'm arresting you on suspicion of illegally possessing drugs," said the police officer.
She is under suspicion of murder.
In this particular case, they are above/beyond suspicion.
Some of us were told to go there and to kill those who were under suspicion.
making you feel that something illegal is happening or that something is wrong
suspicious behaviour/circumstances
His wife became suspicious after finding blood in their car.
The fire at the bank is being treated as suspicious.
It's a bit suspicious that no one knows where he was at the time of the murder.
There's a suspicious-looking van parked at the end of the road.
Talking to Calloway made Martins very suspicious, because he had always thought of him as a nice and decent person.
not trusting someone or something
Many of them remain suspicious of journalists.
My mother has a very suspicious nature.
He gave me a suspicious look.
Paul was suspicious and asked her if she was alright. Jane replied with a yes, but she looked nervous. She went quickly upstairs and came back holding a baby in her arms. She told him that this baby was theirs.
in a way that shows that you do not trust someone or something
He looked at her suspiciously.
He sniffed the soup suspiciously.
The old man, who was going upstairs, stopped and looked at us very suspiciously.
to cause or allow something to continue for a period of time
The team may not be able to sustain this level of performance.
And they have to work hard to reach and sustain this high level.
to support someone or something so that they can live or exist
The money he received was hardly enough to sustain a wife and five children.
The one concern I have is the ability of such a job to financially sustain an entire family.
the degree to which something is sustainable
We have to think about the sustainability of these energy sources.
State and Society should be held responsible for ensuring the environment's sustainability and for preventing further damage.
able to continue over a period of time
sustainable development/growth
This is as you might know the aim of the concept of sustainable development.
causing little or no damage to the environment and therefore able to continue for a long time
sustainable energy
Being an engineer in the field of renewable and sustainable energy which includes solar energy, hydropower and wind energy, I can say I am quite knowledgeable about the specific problem of environmental issues and about how to mitigate the serious impacts.
to move your throat in order to make food or drink go down
My throat is so sore that it really hurts when I swallow.
The snake swallowed the bird whole.
When Mrs McGillicuddy was upstairs, she swallowed a fish bone.
to accept something unpleasant
They found the final decision hard to swallow.
Occasionally he would beat her, but she just swallowed it with a sense of helplessness.
to not show your feelings and to not allow them to affect the way that you behave
I swallowed my pride and asked them for help.
She has had to put up with all the psychological harm that her husband has put her through and at the same time, she has had to keep on struggling for her children, never giving in; holding back her tears, swallowing her pride just for the benefit of her daughters.
a large, white bird with a long neck which lives on lakes and rivers
We saw two swans gliding down the river with their signets.
The ugly duckling became a beautiful swan.
to give something to someone and get something from them in return
Would you mind if Dave swapped places with you for a bit?
People come here to swap opinions and news.
to use language which people think is rude or offensive
It was a real shock, the first time I heard my mother swear.
When the taxi driver started to swear at him, he walked off.
When I heard the ringing of the phone I became so furious that as soon as I answered the phone, I started swearing at it.
to make a serious promise
I don't know anything about what happened, I swear (it).
She swore (that) she didn't know what had happened to the money.
New gang members must swear to obey the gang leaders at all times.
In some countries, witnesses in court have to swear on the Bible.
That day I swore to myself that I would never trust anybody again.
used to say that you are sure something is true
I could have sworn that she said she lived in Canterbury.
I could have sworn there was at least £10 in it the day before.
the salty colourless liquid that comes through your skin when you are hot, nervous or ill
The sweat was pouring off me ten minutes into the game.
By the time we'd climbed to the top of the hill, we were covered in sweat.
She wiped the beads of sweat from her forehead.
Pearls of sweat appeared on her forehead.
to produce liquid through your skin because you are hot, nervous or ill
The room was hot and I was starting to sweat.
The prisoners were sweating with fear.
I began to sweat and my fear changed to panic when we opened a door.
a warm piece of clothing which covers the top of your body and is pulled on over your head
Put a sweater on if you're cold.
a V-necked sweater
I got lots of presents, for example I got a nice sweater.
a piece of clothing made of soft cotton which covers the top of your body and is pulled on over your head
She was dressed casually in jeans and a sweatshirt.
Well, I'm always wearing tight-fitting, blue jeans, I really love them as they're always in fashion, and if it's cold, a v-neck, long sleeved sweatshirt.
to clean the floor using a brush
I've swept the floor.
He swept up the pieces of broken glass.
I found your watch yesterday, while I was sweeping the floor.
to be pushed or carried along in a forceful way
Many trees were swept away in the flood.
They got swept along by the crowd.
Suddenly, we were swept away by an avalanche.
to move quickly, especially in a way that shows you think you are important
She swept past me in the corridor.
"We are Danish dynamite!" and let ourselves be swept along with the stream of people from all over the suburbs heading towards the city hall square of our Capital.
with a taste like sugar
The pineapple was sweet and juicy.
Do you want your pancakes sweet or savoury?
I like rice and sweet dishes.
attractive, often because of being small
Look at that kitten - isn't she sweet?
It's a toy bear and it's so sweet.
kind and friendly
It was really sweet of you to help.
Thank you ever so much for the present you've sent me! It was really sweet of you.
a small piece of sweet food, often made of sugar or chocolate
She bought a packet of sweets to suck on the journey.
At the party, we danced, sang, listened to music, and ate sweets!
sweet food such as cake or candy
Rosie tries to avoid sweets.
Yes, if you can bring some sweets and some snacks, it would be great!
happening or moving quickly
a swift response
Individual performances were amazing. Jimmy Page's heavy blues riffs, his swift solos and his talent for composing songs of an incredible richness clearly showed he was still one of the greatest figures of rock 'n' roll.
quickly
The authorities have moved swiftly to quell the violence.
Time seems to flow more swiftly when we need it most, and those two days went by without us having finished the paper.
to move through water by moving your body
We spent the day on the beach but it was too cold to swim.
I swam two miles this morning.
I like this place because I like to swim.
a time when you swim
Shall we go for/have a swim this afternoon?
I would like to play volleyball on the beach and have a swim in the sea.
someone who is swimming or who can swim
Oliver is a very strong swimmer.
He is the best swimmer in the club, much faster than I could ever be.
the activity of moving through water by moving your body
Let's go swimming today.
The doctor recommended swimming as the best all-round exercise.
I want to go swimming and cycling.
a piece of clothing you wear to go swimming
I bought a new swimming costume.
I bought a new red swimming costume.
an area of water that has been made for people to swim in
an indoor/outdoor swimming pool
I like it when we go to the swimming pool.
to move smoothly backwards and forwards, or to make something do this
He walked briskly along the path swinging his rolled-up umbrella.
When Mary entered the bar, the room was empty and there was a rope swinging from a beam.
a chair hanging on two ropes that children sit on and swing backwards and forwards
Jake wanted me to push him on the swing.
Do you remember the swing by the big tree in my garden?
to change from one thing to another
She started studying English at college, but switched to Business Studies in her second year.
He's just switched jobs.
For many years I had created my system under MS-DOS (Disk Operating System), but two years ago I switched and since then I've worked with Unix.
a small object that you push up or down with your finger to turn something electrical on or off
a light switch
Can you flip the switch?
Then I turned off the switch until the end of the day.
larger than usual
a bruised, swollen face
I cried almost all day and wanted to go home as quickly as possible but suddenly, someone took a photograph of me with swollen eyes.
a weapon with a long sharp metal blade and a handle, used especially in the past
He rode towards me, waving his sword in the air.
I took the ancient sword in my hands and felt the power flow through my veins.
something that has both a positive and a negative effect
Being that intelligent is a double-edged sword - he finds it difficult to talk to ordinary people.
As you might see, technological advancements are a double-edged sword.
a word or part of a word that has one vowel sound
The word "tiger" has two syllables.
I stressed the wrong syllable in the world "gamos" = marriage in Greek.
a list of the subjects that are included in a course of study
Freud isn't on the syllabus.
Physical Education is now generally considered an important part of a person's progress towards a mature, well-rounded adult human being, a fact that is reflected by the inclusion of Physical Education as an obligatory subject in national school syllabi.
a sign, shape or object which is used to represent something else
A heart shape is the symbol of love.
The wheel in the Indian flag is a symbol of peace.
This was the first time it arrived and it was a point of hope for all the friends of nature and particularly for the World Wildlife Fund, who have chosen the panda as their symbol.
representing something else
The blue, white, and red of the French flag are symbolic of liberty, equality and fraternity.
The reason why people value certain items so greatly is that these items have a great symbolic value to their owners.
showing that you understand and care about someone's problems
He suffers from back trouble too, so he was very sympathetic about my problem.
She was very sympathetic when I told her about my situation.
Nobody wants to talk to him apart from Alice, she feels sympathetic and understands him.
agreeing with or supporting someone's ideas or actions
The current government are very sympathetic towards environmental issues.
I hope you'll be sympathetic to our demands and take some action.
to understand and care about someone's problems
It's a really bad situation - I do sympathize with her.
In our lives, it is crucial that we develop relationships between other individuals, in order to have somebody to sympathize with us in bad times and stand on our side to help us.
to agree with or support someone's ideas or actions
I sympathize with the general aims of the party.
As a result, they tend to sympathize with more radical groups and parties in order to support a change in the current system.
when you show that you understand and care about someone's problems
The president has sent a message of sympathy to the relatives of the dead soldiers.
I don't have much sympathy for her - I think she's brought her troubles on herself.
No matter how sensitive or impassive one's attitude towards animals is, after having thought it over thoroughly most of us feel deep sorrow and sympathy for the poor creatures kept in cages.
agreement with or support for someone's ideas or actions
Scott was in sympathy with this view.
a physical feeling or problem which shows that you have a particular illness
He's complaining of all the usual flu symptoms - a high temperature, headache and so on.
He's been HIV-positive for six years, but just recently he's started to develop the symptoms of AIDS.
We asked her what had happened and she told us she had some weird symptoms so she went for an examination to see what was wrong. She finally discovered that... she was pregnant!
a problem that is caused by and shows a more serious problem
The drinking was just a symptom of his general unhappiness.
The problem with tackling homelessness is that it is just a symptom.
a word or phrase that means the same as another word or phrase
'Quick' and 'fast' are synonyms.
Dynamic, Go-Getters, Ambitious, Stalwarts - These are just some of the synonyms that the young people of today's generation are known by.
If one thing is synonymous with another, they are very closely connected with each other in people's minds.
It is a country where wealth is synonymous with corruption.
Working is synonymous with integration in the society.
If one word is synonymous with another, they have the same meaning.
Would you say that 'idle' is completely synonymous with 'lazy'?
a set of connected pieces of equipment that operate together
They've had an alarm system installed at their home.
a central-heating system
The computer system keeps crashing and no one is able to figure out why.
They had a new sound system which is very loud.
a way or method of doing things
the American legal system
the public transport system
We'll have to work out a proper filing system.
Under our education system, you're supposed to be able to choose the type of schooling that your child receives.
the metric system of measuring and weighing
You will have the possibility to get to know our political system.
parts of the body that work together in order to make something happen
the body's digestive/immune system
Now stem cells are widely used in cosmetic surgery - this extremely expensive treatment is offered to well-off people who want to look younger and strengthen their immune system.
done using a fixed and organized plan
the systematic collection and analysis of information
On account of systematic and thorough rationalization in almost every sector of Western economics, workers are not needed as they were in the fifties or sixties.
in a systematic way
We went through all the documents systematically.
Unemployment is a major problem today but it can be dealt with systematically and it is worth investing in a solution to this problem because of the social implications.
a piece of furniture with four legs, used for eating off, putting things on, etc.
the kitchen table
The plates were still on the table.
There is a beautiful table in the garden.
an arrangement of facts and numbers in rows or blocks, especially in printed material
The table below shows the results of the experiment.
to put plates, knives, forks, etc. on the table to prepare for a meal
Could you lay the table for me, please?
Before she came to my home, I prepared everything perfectly, laying the table with silver spoons, flowers and candles.
a small, round object containing medicine that you swallow
sleeping tablets
I talked to her many times about the danger of taking tablets for pain.
a game in which two or four people hit a small ball over a low net on a large table
Shall we play table tennis?
I also play basketball, badminton and table tennis.
a type of popular newspaper with small pages which has many pictures and short simple reports
She writes for one of the tabloids.
A famous person has no private life. There is always gossip in magazines and tabloids about the latest hot love stories among the stars.
relating to tabloids
the tabloid press
a tabloid newspaper
He doesn't want this story to get into the grubby hands of the tabloid press.
to try to deal with a problem or to speak to someone about something bad that they have done
new ways to tackle crime
There are many ways of tackling this problem.
Have you tackled him about his attitude?
I've found some information because all these problems must be tackled now.
to try to get the ball from someone in a game such as football
He successfully tackled his opponent.
Always keep on learning different ways of passing, shooting and tackling, as there is no end to learning a new way.
the ability to talk to people about difficult subjects without upsetting them
This situation needs to be handled with great tact.
One can't help admiring Lucy's tact, when during their ramble with the Emersons, Miss Lavish and the clergymen, she leaves Charlotte and Miss Lavish on their own, so that they could gossip.
careful not to say or do anything that could upset someone
She asked a few tactful questions.
My classmate Martin is very tactful but he has a great sense of humour.
a way of doing something that you plan in order to achieve what you want
These bomb attacks represent a change of tactics by the terrorists.
One can learn about the way of life of the wise ancient Greeks and study the political system, their society or even tactics used in battle.
not careful about saying or doing something that could upset someone
That was a really tactless thing to say.
You... you.. you horrible and tactless person, you BASTARD', she shrieked and dashed out of the room into the kitchen slamming the door behind her.
the long, narrow part that sticks out at the back of an animal's body
The dog wagged its tail excitedly.
She is very beautiful with her long bushy tail and soft paws.
the last part of something
the tail end of the eighties
Both Olivia's and the narrator's stories show India at crucial times of its history: at the tail end of the "Raj" and at the initial stage of a modern and independent country.
to get and carry something with you when you go somewhere
I take my mobile phone with me everywhere I go.
I'd take your umbrella if I were you.
The park is very close to my house. ... If I have time, I can take a book or a newspaper there.
to go somewhere with someone, often paying for them or being responsible for them
I took the kids to the park.
I thought I'd take her to that nice Italian restaurant.
She takes her son to school.
to photograph someone or something
Did you take any pictures of the sunset?
She took some great photos of the children.
He had his photograph taken by a professional.
Sometimes I take photos of them and I feed these birds.
to travel somewhere by using a bus, train, car, etc.
Are you taking the train to Edinburgh?
Then, we can take a cab.
If something takes a particular amount of time, you need that amount of time in order to be able to do it.
It took me three days to finish the job.
I'll just finish off this report - it won't take long.
It's going to take 2 hours.
used when saying goodbye to someone
See you soon, Bob - take care!
Take care and see you soon.
used to tell someone which road to go along in order to get somewhere
Take the third turning on the left.
Take the main road out of town.
You can go to the city center. You take St Mark's avenue and then you arrive.
to swallow or use medicine
Take two tablets, three times a day.
It is important for me because I don't have any other watch and I need to check the time to take my medicine.
to do an exam
I have to take some exams in June.
It's important because I'm taking an exam next week.
to get hold of something and move it
He reached across and took the glass from her.
He took my arm and led me outside.
So, she took me by the arm and brought me to the dance floor where everybody was waiting for that last man.
to remove something without permission
Someone's taken my coat!
Has anything been taken?
He had taken our suitcases by mistake.
to accept or have something
Are you going to take the job?
Do they take credit cards here?
If you take this job, you have to be prepared not to have enough spare time for things that you like to do, since you would be at work all day.
used with some nouns to say that someone performs an action
I need to take a shower.
Do you take any exercise?
Take a look at this.
I thought we could take a walk after lunch.
Take a deep breath.
I took a shower and ate my breakfast.
to look after someone or something
I'll take good care of her.
Don't worry about me, I can take care of myself.
My dad had to go to Canada for a meeting, so he asked me to take care of her.
to write something
Did you take their number/details?
I took notes during the talk.
Alice isn't here at the moment. Can I take a message?
He took my phone number and we went to the cinema the day after.
to study a subject in order to do an exam
He's taking maths, chemistry and physics.
I took a course in accountancy.
My old English class wasn't good enough because the lessons were just in the evening and also we didn't have enough conversation. So I decided to take a full-time course.
to be involved in an activity with other people
She doesn't usually take part in any of the class activities.
The practice was for a big competition at our club, in which teams from Munich and Cologne will take part.
to happen
The concert takes place next Thursday.
A dance night will take place in the club soon.
to stop working for a short period
I think we'll take a break there.
If you're tired, you should take a rest.
When I took a little break to drink something, I met one of my best friends.
to use something good in a situation to help you
I thought I'd take advantage of the sports facilities while I'm here.
If you take advantage of this opportunity, in the future you'll thank me.
to relax and not use too much energy
After his heart attack, he had to take things easy for a while.
Take it easy and see you soon.
to wear a particular size of clothes
What size shoe do you take?
I take a size 12 in trousers.
to usually have milk/sugar, etc. in your tea or coffee
I've forgotten - do you take milk in your tea?
to remove one number from another number
If you take 4 from 12 you get 8.
to need or be followed by another word or structure in order to be grammatically correct
This sense of the verb 'give' takes two objects.
to not be able to deal with an unpleasant situation
We argue all the time and I can't take it any more.
In the end, when Laura couldn't take it anymore, she decided to end her suffering by taking her life.
to consider a person, subject or situation to be important or dangerous and worth your attention or respect
We take any threats to national security very seriously.
Don't take everything so seriously otherwise you'll probably end up as an old maid and I don't think you want that.
to have a particular, good feeling about something or someone
He takes great pleasure in cooking.
I have always taken an interest in local history.
The amazing thing about him is that he takes pride in his appearance and the image others have of him.
to consider something when judging a situation
A good architect takes account of the building's surroundings.
I hope you will take account of our request.
to consider something when judging a situation
I think you have to take into account the fact that he's a good deal younger than the rest of us.
Taking into account all these arguments, I also think, like many people, that keeping animals in zoos is cruel and unnecessary.
to treat someone or something badly in order to get what you want
I think she takes advantage of his good nature.
There will always be the threat of those men who take advantage of animals' inferior status.
If something takes your breath away, you feel surprise and admiration because it is so beautiful or exciting.
The view from the window took my breath away.
The landscape just takes your breath away sometimes.
to take control of or make yourself responsible for something
I was happy to let her take charge of the holiday arrangements.
I am 21 years old which means that I can take charge of school children.
to start to rule or govern an area
The dictator took control of the country in 1933.
In the first part of the story animals take control of a farm in England.
to fill your lungs with air
Take a deep breath and relax.
But if you took a deep breath after reading the question, don't worry.
to believe what someone says without any proof
Take my word for it - this curry is very hot!
Naturally we had to take his word for it.
to not show that you are grateful for someone or something, and forget that you are lucky to have them
Most of us take our freedom for granted.
So don't take the telephone for granted, but keep in mind that our modern way of life is mainly due to its invention.
to believe that something is true without checking or thinking about it
I took it for granted that we'd be invited to the wedding.
I have taken it for granted that you will arrive for dinner.
to use an occasion to do or say something
I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all of you.
Most of the comments are not right at all. I would like to take this opportunity to correct them.
to do something instead of someone else
If I can't make it to the theatre that night you can take my place.
First of all, it had been written that Danny Brook and Tina Truelove were starring, but Danny wasn't there and somebody else took his place.
to start to produce results or changes
They had to wait ten minutes for the anaesthetic to take effect.
Some factories tried to organize the transport for the employees, but it took effect in small towns only, where people live within shorter distances.
to do something without hurrying
Take your time choosing - there's no hurry.
If you're going to land at the 'Lugano-Agno' airport, as you told me in your last letter, the first thing I recommend to you is to be patient and take your time.
accept that what I say is true, because I know or have experienced it
You could be doing a much less interesting job, take it from me.
As you probably already know, Greeks love sport so, take it from me, you won't have difficulty in finding sports facilities of any kind, wherever you decide to go.
to be responsible for dealing with something
I did the cooking while Guy took care of the washing up.
As for special requirements, one man and one woman are vegetarians and the woman is allergic to cats. I hope you are able to take care of that.
to understand or accept an idea or a piece of information
Banks need to take on board the views of their customers.
The students feel that if the above suggestions were taken on board, the study centre could be an excellent support for them in their studies.
to be the first person to do something that solves a problem or improves a situation
Jackson had taken the initiative and prepared a report.
I took the initiative to contact Sue Wilton, who is the manager of the restaurant "El Plato".
to disagree with what someone says or writes
I would take issue with you on that.
On behalf of the staff who worked for this event, I would like to take issue with the report's inaccuracies and unfair remarks.
to do something that will have an effect on someone else, without asking their permission
I took the liberty of booking theatre seats for us.
I have taken the liberty of listing some of my ideas and suggestions and hope they will be of interest to you.
to pay careful attention to something
Make sure you take note of what she says.
Safety standards are being tightened. Employers, take note.
I thank you for taking note of my view.
to think that someone is criticizing you or to feel that a failure or bad situation is your fault
You mustn't take everything so personally.
She tends to take things too personally, and sometimes she overreacts.
to believe what someone says without any proof
Take my word for it - this curry is very hot!
You can take my word for it that she is absolutely capable of carrying out this job - fond of children, patient, good-natured and competent.
to understand something in a particular way
Whatever I say she'll take it the wrong way.
to deal with something as it happens, without planning for it
With an illness like this you just have to take every day as it comes.
We should, for once, put our jealousy aside, start to appreciate what we have and take life as it comes.
to measure something
Have you taken her temperature?
The importance of absolute truth in keeping the laboratory records, in taking the temperature of the test animals, was "engraved" in our young minds.
used when you think that what you say is probably true
I take it you're not coming with us.
If something takes a particular quality, you need that quality in order to be able to do it.
It takes courage to challenge your manager.
It takes courage to give up a certain sense of security and face the unknown.
to not like something that someone says or does
He doesn't take kindly to criticism.
His wife didn't take kindly to his lateness and immediately snarled at him as though she was a tigress snapping her claws in a cat-fight.
to do something illegal in order to punish someone because you know that the law will not punish that person
The police did nothing about the thefts, so they took the law into their own hands.
Therefore, locals are scared to death, leading to their taking the law into their own hands.
to be annoyed or insulted by something
He took exception to being asked to sweep the floor.
I hope you will not take exception to my words, but I think that this course of action is rather foolish and illogical.
If you take criticism or advice to heart, you think about it seriously, often because it upsets you
Don't take it to heart - he was only joking about your hair.
I hope you will take my advice to heart.
to do something important or difficult, especially after thinking about it for a long time
We're finally going to take the plunge and buy a house.
Being unable to stand this mystery, I decided to take the plunge and follow him.
to start to develop and become more clear or certain
The project is slowly beginning to take shape.
It is high time that their dreams took shape!
to think carefully about a situation before making a decision
We need to pause and take stock of what still needs doing.
to have a bad effect on someone or something, especially over a long period of time
The stress was starting to take its toll on him.
The famine has obviously taken its toll on him.
to become better or worse suddenly
The weather took a turn for the better.
Despite all the environmental problems it is up to us to prevent things from taking a turn for the worse.
your opinion about a situation
What's your take on the plan to close the library?
when people reach agreement by letting each person have part of what they want
In every friendship there has to be some give and take.
This relationship must be a balance of give and take, and considered as the basis for that process of growth which should help a young person to reach a point of life in which he or she will be able to make his or her own choices, being aware of the consequences.
a meal that you buy in a restaurant or shop but eat at home, or a shop that sells this type of meal
a Chinese takeaway
After pubs or a night club, they go to the takeaway.
when a company gets control of another company
The company was involved in a takeover last year.
Everything has to be cheap and fast and there are mergers and takeovers all the time.
a story, especially one which is not true or is difficult to believe
He told the most amazing tales about his life in India.
She told me some tale about missing the bus to explain her lateness.
She knows everything about Prague's history and many local stories and tales.
a natural ability to do something
Her talent for music showed at an early age.
his artistic talents
Some people have skills and talent and some do not.
with talent
a talented footballer/pianist
He is so talented, so smart and very polite to all.
to say things to someone
We were just talking about Simon's new girlfriend.
The teacher's always telling him to stop talking.
It was nice talking to/with you.
I like to talk with my friends and my teacher.
to discuss something with someone, often to try to find a solution to a disagreement
The two sides have agreed to talk.
I decided to talk to him and try to solve the problem.
to give a lecture on a subject
The next speaker will be talking about endangered insects.
We think that the best topic you could talk about is your latest book, you could try to develop the subject, explain to the members how to become a writer, from where and how do you get your ideas, and the subjects of your book.
to discuss a particular subject
I don't like to talk business over lunch.
Do not talk politics or sports with him (!)
to understand a subject because of your experience
He doesn't know what he's talking about - he's never even been to Africa.
I believe that you don't really know what you're talking about.
to think about or make plans to do something in the future
They're talking about building a new fire station just up the road.
7 years ago they were talking about building another block of flats in the park.
a conversation between two people, often about a particular subject
He's going to have a talk with his parents and see what they think.
We had a talk and he told me about Bradley and what the band was like.
when someone speaks to a group of people about a particular subject
He gave a talk about/on his visit to Bolivia.
I went to a few interesting talks.
Dear Tom, It was very nice to hear from you again and it's really kind of you to give a talk to our Cinema Club.
when people talk about what might happen or be true
There's been some talk of possible job losses.
There's been a lot of talk about green issues lately.
It is also true that there has been a lot of talk about euthanasia.
A talkative person talks a lot.
My son is very talkative.
I would advise you to film the classrooms, maybe a conversation class, during which students will be more talkative and less shy.
formal meetings, especially between political leaders, to discuss a problem and to try to reach an agreement
peace talks
US officials are holding talks with EU leaders over trade.
It should be dealt with through peace talks and more active communications between the countries.
having a greater than average height
a tall girl
a tall building
He's tall with dark hair.
He is a tall man.
used for talking or asking about the height of someone or something
He's six feet tall.
How tall are you?
She's much taller than me.
I am selling the dress because now I'm taller than two years ago and so it is small.
when your skin is brown from being in the sun
She had a lovely tan.
If you want to get a tan, this is the place to be.
Something which is tangible is real and can be seen, touched, or measured.
tangible benefits/evidence
This was a tangible physical pleasure that I have felt ever since, whether I sing along with accompaniment, or in a chorus.
a large, strong military vehicle with a gun on it which moves on wheels inside large metal belts
Tanks rolled into the city at dawn.
They were inside the university and they were transmitting on a radio frequency when the tanks invaded from the main entrance.
a large container for storing liquid or gas
a water tank
a fuel/petrol tank
The heater is automatic and there is plenty of fuel oil in the tank.
the part at the end of a pipe which controls the flow of water
the hot/cold tap
Turn the tap on/off.
As soon as I got in, I turned the tap on and waited for hot water.
a gentle knock or touch, or the noise made by knocking something gently
I felt a tap on my shoulder.
There was a tap at the door.
While she was teaching, I fell asleep and two minutes later I felt a tap on my back.
to knock or touch something gently
I tapped on the window to try to get her attention.
She lit up the whole stage when she danced, as she tapped her feet in rhythm with the music.
something or someone that you attack, shoot at, try to hit, etc.
a military target
I had four shots but I didn't even hit the target.
Any major airport or station is potentially a terrorist target.
Foreign businesses in the region have become a target for attacks.
Paul Rebere, a famous professional assassin, had been in that room for two hours now, waiting for his target to show up.
something that you intend to achieve
If you want to lose weight, you have to set yourself a target.
My target is to be a professional tennis player but I need to work hard for it.
the person or thing that people are criticizing or blaming for something
Recently she has been the target of a series of obscene phone calls.
People get nervous, the bus driver gets nervous and finally the interpreter becomes the target of passengers' complaints.
the group of people that a programme, product, etc. is aimed at
Children aren't really our target market.
The target audience will be students with intermediate- to upper-intermediate command of the language.
to aim advertising, criticism, or a product at someone
The products are targeted at people in their late twenties.
When considering that the programme is targeted at young people, we conclude that it should be funny and amusing.
a piece of work, especially something unpleasant or difficult
We usually ask interviewees to perform a few simple tasks on the computer just to test their aptitude.
The government now faces the difficult task of restructuring the entire health service.
To be honest, the task we were given was incredibly easy.
the flavour of a particular food in your mouth
I love the taste of garlic.
The soup had a slightly sour taste.
I don't know how old it is but I've gone there since I was a child and the taste of the food has never changed.
the particular things you like, such as styles of music, clothes, decoration, etc.
You have very good taste!
I don't like his taste in music.
She has very expensive tastes.
In my opinion, the variety of films you show cover all kinds of tastes.
a short experience of something different
This was my first taste of freedom.
Before you catch your plane, your group could visit our nice city and have a taste of our culture.
the ability to experience different flavours in your mouth
When you've got a cold you often lose your sense of taste.
to be acceptable in a way that will not upset or anger people
His speech was in good taste.
I therefore thought that it would be in good taste to write about two of them.
to be unacceptable in a way that will upset or anger people
He told a joke about a plane crash which I thought was in rather poor taste.
when you like or enjoy something
I've developed a bit of a taste for opera.
Over the years I've lost my taste for travel.
This diary was supposedly in the hands of Madame Isabella Costa, the widow of the late Christian Rudolph, a German actor with a taste for antiques.
to have a particular flavour
This sauce tastes strange.
The bread tastes of onions.
This coffee tastes like dishwater!
The food is very typical and tastes good.
to put food or drink in your mouth to find out what flavour it has
Taste this sauce and tell me if it needs any salt.
Whatever's this? I've never tasted anything like it.
Of course I tasted tequila, and I liked it very much.
attractive and chosen for style and quality
a tasteful beige suit
They have refurbished the house in a very tasteful way, so you can still find some evidence of my grandmother once living there.
having no flavour
The meat was dry and tasteless.
The canteen's food is tasteless and with almost the same menu every day.
ugly or without style
tasteless decorations
A quick look at a major contemporary sports competition: Athletes bulging with muscles that were clearly not earned naturally, massive on-site medical invasion, and a tasteless supply of cheap gadgets.
likely to upset or anger people
a tasteless joke
They received hundreds of complaints after he told a tasteless joke on TV.
Food which is tasty has a good flavour and is nice to eat.
They do a very tasty breakfast.
The meal was really tasty.
money that you have to pay to the government from what you earn or when you buy things
They're putting up the tax on cigarettes.
Tax cuts are always popular.
What do you earn before/after tax?
I pay my taxes.
In Kish or Aeshm you can buy electrical devices cheaper than in your country, because you can buy all goods without tax.
to make someone pay a tax
Husbands and wives may be taxed independently/together.
For example, polluters should be taxed more heavily, and they should be fined.
a car with a driver who you pay to take you somewhere
I took a taxi from the station to the hotel.
a taxi driver
You can go there by bus, taxi or by light rail transit (LRT).
a person who pays tax
Taxpayers deserve better services than this.
Unemployment is not only a problem for those without jobs but also one for those employed, at present, since taxpayers have to suffer the burden of providing an increasing number of people with unemployment with welfare payments.
a hot drink that you make by pouring water onto dried leaves, or the leaves that you use to make this drink
I'd love a cup of tea, please.
They have a selection of herbal teas.
He likes strong/weak tea.
She likes tea and coffee.
a small afternoon meal of sandwiches, cakes, biscuits, etc. and tea to drink
They invited us for afternoon tea.
Every afternoon they organized a tea for all the members.
to give lessons in a particular subject at a school, university, etc.
She teaches chemistry.
He teaches English to foreign students.
Both her parents taught.
I'd like to learn English very well, because I'd like to teach in the future.
to show or explain to someone how to do something
My dad taught me to drive.
Can you teach me how to knit?
Dear students, Here is a book called "Cooking", it teaches you how to cook better.
If a situation teaches you something, it gives you new knowledge or helps you to understand something.
The whole experience taught him to be more careful with money.
This situation taught me that I should keep my important things with me all the time.
to punish someone so that they will not behave badly again
The next time she's late, go without her. That should teach her a lesson.
He didn't want to hurt Diane just teach her a lesson.
someone whose job is to teach in a school or college
a history/science teacher
I love my teacher too.
the job of being a teacher
He's always wanted to go into teaching.
modern teaching methods
The teacher has a lot of experience behind him, I think nearly 20 years of teaching.
a group of people who play a sport or game together against another group of players
a basketball/hockey/netball team
I'll come to England to watch my favourite football team.
a group of people who work together to do something
a management team
a team of advisers
He told me he was part of the sound team of the band I went to see.
when a group of people work well together
We won't achieve anything without good teamwork.
Nowadays teamwork is a skill that is highly demanded by employers.
to pull something so that it comes apart or breaks, or to become damaged like this
I tore my skirt on the chair as I stood up.
You have to be very careful with books this old because the paper tends to tear very easily.
A couple of pages had been torn out of the book.
Although it's quite expensive, the clothes that I buy from there will not tear easily.
to remove something by pulling it quickly and violently
She tore his picture down from the wall.
If you can't bear seeing an ear being torn off from somebody's head, don't watch this video.
to be unable to decide between two choices
I'm torn between the apple pie and the chocolate mousse.
As a consequence, we find ourselves torn between what we want to eat and what we feel we should be eating.
a drop of water that comes from your eye when you cry
These are tears of joy.
Did you notice the tears in his eyes when he talked about Diane?
Her eyes filled with tears.
I had to fight the tears of rage, and my heart beat as fast as a drum.
crying
I found him in tears in his bedroom.
By the end of it, Mary Anne was nearly in tears.
to suddenly start to cry
She burst into tears and ran out of the room.
She burst into tears.
to cry
I shed a few tears when he left.
She was too preoccupied to talk to anybody and she had shed so many tears that she could cry no more.
to laugh at someone or say unkind things about them, either because you are joking or because you want to upset them
I used to hate being teased about my red hair when I was at school.
I was only teasing, I didn't mean to upset you.
Ginny's classmates were always teasing her about her clothing.
a small spoon that is used for mixing drinks and measuring small amounts of food, or the amount this spoon can hold
Add two teaspoons of salt.
Lastly, thank you for asking me what I'd like from the USA, because I am a very serious collector of teaspoons with different countries' flags on them.
relating to the knowledge, machines or methods used in science and industry
a few technical problems
Instead, due to some technical problems, it began at 20:15.
relating to practical skills and methods that are used in a particular activity
As a dancer she had great technical skill.
Federer glides over the court as if it's the easiest thing, and apart from his technical and physical skills he is a great personality.
relating to the knowledge, machines, or methods used in science and industry
technically advanced weapons
Everybody has one of these technically engineered marvels and they come in different shapes, colours, prices and with a lot of configurable options.
according to the exact details of a rule, law, or fact
Irvine is technically British but lives in Dublin and races for the Irish team.
Working nine to five every weekday may not sound like too much of a bother, considering that it is technically only one third of the whole day, but we all know how depressing it can get when you're doing the same thing over and over again.
someone whose job involves practical work with scientific or electrical equipment
a lab technician
It could be the fault of the sound technician, although I believe that for the next Activity day we should be provided with better equipment and loudspeakers.
a particular or special way of doing something
We have developed a new technique for detecting errors in the manufacturing process.
She's a wonderfully creative dancer but she doesn't have the technique of a truly great performer.
I go on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 4:00 P.M to 7:00 P.M. I've learned a whole new bunch of tips, techniques and stuff I want to show you.
a type of electronic dance music
He's really into techno.
As for the music, Red Hot Chilli Peppers did a really fine job with "Otherside", while the other video has the classic techno beat.
relating to, or involving, technology
Technological advances/developments in computing and telecommunications will reduce the need for many people to travel to work.
I think that the more technological developments we have, the more comfortable lives we enjoy.
in a way that relates to or involves technology
Their society was technologically advanced.
The economy nowadays is so technologically driven it is a common belief that having a job in the computer industry means high pay and perks.
knowledge, equipment, and methods that are used in science and industry
computer technology
modern technology
What this country needs is a long-term policy for investment in science and technology.
I also like to read some magazines about computers and technology, my favourite is "PC Magazine".
boring
a tedious job
The idea of going to work out to keep fit might be tedious sometimes but the majority of young people are interested in taking up an activity these days.
aged between 13 and 19 years old
a teenage daughter
However, teenage films are better for me.
a young person between 13 and 19 years old
The magazine is aimed at teenagers and young adults.
Well I want to help in the concert, and I think that all teenagers like rock music.
the sending and receiving of messages over distance, especially by telephone, radio and television
the telecommunications industry
Accompanied by the success of these telecommunications companies, a lot of jobs have been created.
a piece of electronic equipment that you use to talk to someone who is in another place, or the communication system that allows you to do this
There was a telephone on the desk.
They communicated by telephone.
I want to sell my old telephone.
to communicate with someone by telephone
Telephone me if you're going to be late.
Please telephone me at home.
a piece of equipment, in the shape of a tube, that makes things which are far away look bigger or nearer
a very powerful telescope
I just laugh when he tries to convince me of their existence, once he even told me that he saw a spaceship in the sky while he was observing the stars with his telescope.
a piece of equipment in the shape of a box, with a screen on the front, used for watching programmes
a flat-screen television
Could you turn the television down?
I want to sell my small television.
the programmes that are shown on a television
I mostly watch television in the evening.
Is there anything interesting on television tonight?
It's one of the few television programmes that I always make a point of watching.
He likes watching television and listening to the radio.
the system or business of making and broadcasting programmes for television
She works in television.
a television company/network
If possible, I would go to the television company for help, then they will show it on TV.
to say something to someone, usually giving them information
Did she tell you about her holiday?
Can you tell me the way to the station?
Can you tell me what time the next bus leaves?
I told him (that) I was coming to see you.
"I'm leaving you," she told him.
Please can you tell us a story?
I would like to tell you about my favourite place.
to order or advise someone to do something
I told you to stay here.
I told her to go home.
The teacher told us to bring a notebook and a pencil!
to advise someone how/what/when to do something
Kit will tell you how to get there.
She didn't tell us what to do.
He tells us how to do the different kinds of exercises.
used to emphasize your feelings about something
I can't tell you how grateful I am for your help.
I can't tell you how nervous I am.
to know or recognize something from what you hear, see, etc.
You could tell that he was tired.
You can never tell whether Hajime's being serious or not.
I could tell it was the voice of a man, but I failed to identify it.
If something tells you something, it gives you information.
What does the survey tell us about the lives of teenagers?
We have all seen the reports which tell us about the problems of pollution from cars.
to notice a difference between two things
I can't tell the difference between an American and a Canadian accent.
This coffee is about half the price of that one and yet you really can't tell the difference.
Not only will their critical sense atrophy but also they will not be able to tell the difference between what is right and wrong.
used to suggest a plan
Tell you what, let's go swimming and then get a pizza.
I'll tell you what, why don't you let me pay for a hotel room for a week, just the time you need to make some arrangements?
used to say that you were right and that someone should have believed you
He's lazy? I told you so, didn't I?
'I think I've taken on too much work.' 'I told you so, didn't I?'
See, I told you so", Azman said with a grin.
 television
I saw her on the telly.
In the end I think it is only a good laugh when there is nothing else on telly.
when someone becomes angry very quickly
She has a real temper.
He's got a really bad temper.
In my opinion, the behaviour of the old lady is somewhat rude and sometimes, through her bad temper, she offends the customers.
to suddenly become angry
The children behaved so badly that I lost my temper.
Yesterday, I must confess, I lost my temper with my son.
to succeed in staying calm and not becoming angry
I can't discuss this with you unless you promise to keep your temper.
He never offends people and he keeps his temper even if someone insults him.
how hot or cold something is
Preheat the oven to a temperature of 200 degrees Celsius.
There has been a sudden rise in temperature over the past few days.
The weather is warm and the temperature is about 40°.
how hot or cold someone's body is
The doctor examined him and took his temperature.
I am very sick, my temperature is 42 degrees so I'm going to the hospital this evening.
to be hotter than usual because you are ill
My throat hurts and I have a temperature.
I have to change the time, because I feel sick and I've got a temperature.
a building where people in some religions go to pray or worship
a Buddhist temple
You can see many temples and Maiko, who are traditional people wearing Kimono.
for a short time
This office is closed temporarily for redecoration.
We can work temporarily for up to 6 months.
existing or happening for only a short or limited time
temporary staff
a temporary job
temporary accommodation/housing
It was a reality show that involved a lot of young people who were applying for a temporary job - I think a marketing job - and finally only one of them got it.
to want something or to want to do something
"Did you apply for that job?" "Well, I was very tempted but in the end I decided not to."
I was tempted to resign after my boss was so rude to me.
I am tempted to start taking tennis lessons at your sports club if it's possible.
a feeling that you want to do or have something, although you know you should not
In these situations, there is a huge temptation to lie.
As a young actress, she managed to resist the temptation to move to Hollywood.
I felt the irresistible temptation to meet new people and feel some freedom.
the number 10
I've invited ten people.
They met ten years ago.
This is only ten minutes away by car.
someone who pays rent to live in a room, house, etc.
I have tenants in my flat at the moment.
In an apartment building if all tenants have the will to see the whole structure as their home we can create beautiful surroundings.
to often do a particular thing or be likely to do a particular thing
I tend to wear dark colours.
July and August tend to be our busiest months.
When something is not enjoyable, we tend not to do it.
something that someone often does, or something that often happens
She has a tendency to talk for too long.
There is a growing tendency for companies to employ people on short contracts.
There is a tendency to choose canned and preserved foods instead of fresh ones.
kind and gentle
a tender kiss/look
I like to observe the careful and gentle way in which a mother communicates to her four-year-old child, selecting the words with great care with a tender look in her eyes.
Tender meat or vegetables are soft and easy to cut.
This meat is lovely and tender.
Their steaks are so tender you hardly need your knife and sometimes the plates are too small for the steaks.
at the young age of 8/17/25, etc
She first appeared on stage at the tender age of 14.
She met my father at the tender age of 14, and she soon knew that this was the man she wanted to stay with for the rest of her life.
the quality of being kind and gentle
We were struck by his tenderness towards the old people.
But I will cherish the fact that I have done my best to provide my children with love and tenderness, while watching them turning into adults in a brave new world such as ours.
a sport in which two or four people hit a small ball to each other over a net
Do you fancy a game of tennis?
I'd like to play football and tennis.
any of the forms of a verb which show the time at which an action happened
'I sing' is in the present tense, 'I will sing' is in the future tense and 'I sang' is in the past tense.
The first lesson was about the present tense and wasn't really difficult for us.
nervous, worried, and not able to relax
She was very tense as she waited for the interview.
Beyond the fact you feel tired and tense, I'm afraid that if you keep on working this way, you'll get serious health problems in the future.
A tense situation makes you feel nervous and worried.
There were some tense moments in the second half of the game.
There was a tense atmosphere.
a feeling that you are nervous, worried, and not relaxed
You could feel the tension in the room as we waited for our exam results.
Today's world is also known for stress and tension.
a feeling of fear or anger between people, groups or countries who do not trust each other
ethnic/racial tension
There are growing tensions betweeen the two countries.
I was only eight years old but yet I could feel the tension between my parents.
a structure made of metal poles and cloth which is fixed to the ground with ropes and used as a cover or to sleep under
It only took twenty minutes to put the tent up.
We slept in a tent for two nights there.
one of the periods of time that the school or university year is divided into
In Britain, the spring term starts in January and ends just before Easter.
We're very busy in term-time.
It lasts for an hour and it will be given during the first term.
a word or phrase that is used to refer to a particular thing, especially in a technical or scientific subject
a legal/medical/scientific/technical term
'Without let or hindrance' is a legal term which means 'freely'.
Extreme overworking can even lead to death and that was discovered and confirmed by Japanese doctors who created a special medical term for the illness caused by overworking.
a building where you can get onto an aircraft, bus, or ship
Your flight to Perth will leave from Terminal 4.
The Hotel that I booked for your group is the Moat House Hotel in Feltham, from Heathrow Terminal 3 where you will arrive on 29th of June, the best way to go there is to catch the minibus No 32.
the rules of an agreement
your terms of employment
Under the terms of their contract, employees must give 3 months' notice if they leave.
So we would be very grateful to get some information about the club and the terms of membership.
used to explain which part of a problem or situation you are referring to
In financial terms, the project was not a success.
In terms of quality control, the company has made great improvements.
In terms of accommodation, they provide it all which is good, but unfortunately you have to share your room with another person, which is not so good if you're shy or something like that.
to have a good/bad, etc. relationship with someone
I'm still on friendly terms with my old colleagues.
The fact that they both live alone requires them to be on good terms with the rest of us.
to not speak to someone because you have argued with them
My brother and I aren't on speaking terms.
Just imagine how many are those who hate their relatives or at least one of their relatives and aren't even on speaking terms with them or him.
in a direct and often angry way
I told him to go away in no uncertain terms.
Intellectuals are used to saying in no uncertain terms that money represents the bad side of the sport.
to accept a sad situation
He still hasn't come to terms with his brother's death.
She had, at last, come to terms with her loss and although she still, deep in her heart, grieved for Michael she now knew that she could move on.
a flat area outside a house, restaurant, etc. where you can sit
We had our drinks on the terrace.
I enjoyed the evenings sitting on your terrace listening to your interesting stories about your childhood.
very bad, of low quality, or unpleasant
The weather was terrible.
We have just received some terrible news.
It would be terrible if my parents knew about it.
very
She was terribly upset.
We were terribly lucky that nothing was damaged.
I'm terribly sorry but I've got a job interview.
very badly
I slept terribly last night.
Although he sang quite well, he danced terribly and that spoiled part of the show.
very good
It's a terrific opportunity.
My teacher is terrific and she's always happy.
very large, great, or serious
a terrific increase in prices
a terrific storm
Furthermore, the rubbish collection was a terrific problem, the smell was awful.
very frightened
He sat in the corner like a terrified child.
She's terrified of the dark.
She's terrified (that) her mother might find out.
I was really terrified. Then I turned on the light and...
to frighten someone very much
The idea of parachuting out of a plane terrifies me.
Instead my thoughts drifted away and started to terrify me once more.
extremely frightening
It was a terrifying experience.
That was the most terrifying thing I have ever seen.
relating to the land that is owned or controlled by a particular country
a territorial dispute
In former times these territorial and religious disputes resulted in a decrease of population.
land that is owned or controlled by a particular country
He was shot down in enemy territory.
The UN is sending aid to the occupied territories.
In a way, Sweden is a unique country because it has never had any wars on its territory and avoided the harmful effects of any conquerors.
an area that an animal or person thinks belongs to them
Cats like to protect their territory.
I think that man shouldn't take animals out of their own territory.
an area of knowledge or experience
With this project we'll be moving into unknown territory.
Sure, breaking the habit and 'exploring new, unknown territory' will certainly seem somewhat frightening at first, but we all have to deal with it.
a feeling of being very frightened
They fled from the city in terror.
I will never forget the look of terror in her face.
I froze with terror.
the use of violence for political purposes, for example putting bombs in public places
Governments must cooperate if they are to fight international terrorism.
The bomb explosion was one of the worst acts of terrorism that Italy has experienced in recent years.
someone who is involved in terrorism
There has been an increase in terrorist attacks.
The government has said that it will not be intimidated by terrorist threats.
Some people believed that their town was occupied by terrorists or even aliens.
Tertiary education is education at university or college level.
a tertiary institution
Most poor families can only afford to send their children up to the secondary education and their eldest child up to the tertiary level.
a set of questions to measure someone's knowledge or ability
She had to take an aptitude test as part of the interview.
He passed/failed the written test.
I do writing, spelling tests, speaking, etc.
a short medical examination of part of your body or of something such as blood that is taken from your body
an eye test
a blood/urine test
a pregnancy test
The doctors have done some tests to try to find out what's wrong with her.
So I decided to call and ask for information, then as soon as I had done some medical tests I was accepted.
a situation that shows how good something is
This project will be a real test of his ability.
It's true that asserting oneself in society is a real test of self-reliance and that a lot of people encounter hardships.
to give someone a set of questions, in order to measure their knowledge or ability
You'll be tested on all the areas you've studied this term.
to do something in order to discover if something is safe, works correctly, etc.
None of our products are tested on animals.
Before we can use a certain medicine, hairspray, make-up, etc, it might have been tested on animals to see what their reaction is.
If a situation tests someone, it proves how good, strong, etc. they are.
This next match will really test them.
This trip was organised by our form tutor, he wanted to test us to see if we trusted each other and worked in a team.
to say what you know or believe is true in a law court
Elliott testified that he had met the men in a bar.
They took her to the station and promised her immunity if she would testify against James.
a text message
Send me a text when you get there.
Send me a text.
the written words in a book, magazine, etc., not the pictures
a page of text
The book has 500 pages of text.
a short piece of writing that you discuss in class
Could you all read the text, please?
Next lesson I will have to read a small text.
a book or play that is studied for an examination
'Jane Eyre' is our set text this year.
to send someone a text message
I texted her to arrange a time to meet.
Can you text me back after?
a book about a particular subject, written for students
a chemistry/French textbook
I left my textbook in your house.
a written message, usually containing words with letters left out, sent from one mobile phone to another
He sent me a text message to say he would be late.
It is blue and I can send text messages, and I can take photos.
the way that something feels when you touch it
wood with a rough texture
At the college they teach you how to make the arrangements, the use of colour, space, movement and texture.
used to compare two different things or amounts
My son is a lot taller than my daughter.
You always walk faster than I do!
You're earlier than usual.
Cirencester is smaller than Swindon.
used with 'more' or 'less' to compare numbers or amounts
I spent more than I intended to.
It cost less than I expected.
I want to sell my "English Grammar" book, it's a great book, simple to read, just the right book for you, and I am selling it at less than half price; INCREDIBLE!!
to tell someone that you are grateful for something they have done or given you
Did you thank her for your present?
He thanked me for taking him home.
I thanked her for her present.A1 thank God INFORMAL
something you say when you are happy because something bad did not happen
Thank God nobody was hurt in the accident.
"Thank God my car is OK", he said.
pleased or grateful about something
We were thankful that none of the children saw the accident.
This revolution led to our freedom and we are thankful to the heroic people of 1821, because if they didn't start the revolution, we wouldn't be here today.
used at the beginning of a sentence to show that you are pleased or grateful about something
Thankfully, nobody was hurt.
Thankfully, with the help of the government, a recycling centre was built nearby and so the rubbish littering the streets, as well as that being taken to the dump, was cut down by 60%.
thank you
Thanks for the advice.
Can you pass me that book? Thanks very much.
Hi, Thanks for your invite.
used to refuse an offer politely
"Would you like a drink?" "No thanks, I've just had one."
because of someone or something
I passed my driving test, thanks to the extra help my dad gave me.
Its thanks to Sandy that I heard about the job.
words or actions that show you are grateful or pleased about something
They expressed their thanks to the organisers.
He wrote a letter of thanks to the hospital.
Give thanks also to your wife, we really appreciated her marvellous cooking.
used to tell someone that you are grateful because they have given you something, done something for you or made a polite remark
That was a delicious lunch, thank you.
"Here's your coffee." "Thank you very much."
Thank you for my lovely birthday present.
"You look very nice in that dress." "Thank you."
I like pork meat very much. Thank you very much.
said to politely accept or refuse something that has been offered to you
"Would you like some more cake?" "Yes, I will have a small piece, thank you."
"Do you need any help?" "No, thank you."
something that you say or do in order to show that you are grateful for something
I'd like to say a big thank you to everyone for all their help.
The chocolates were a thank you for looking after the children.
I'm writing to say a very big thank you for our fantastic weekend.
used to refer to something or someone that can be seen or pointed to
Did you know that woman in the post office?
How much are those shoes?
used to refer to something or someone that has already been talked about or seen
Where's that pen gone?
She lives in that house by the bus station.
I like that place because I like swimming in the sea.
used to show that what you have just said is only an example from a larger group of things
They sell souvenirs, postcards, that sort of thing.
I also enjoy using new clothes for the first time, but I prefer buying other stuff like electronic devices or that sort of thing.
used after some verbs, nouns, and adjectives to introduce a new part of a sentence
She said (that) she'd collect it for me after work.
Is it true (that) she's gone back to teaching?
We'll be there at about 7.30, provided/providing (that) there's a suitable train.
It was so dark (that) I couldn't see anything.
It's true that I bought a mobile phone.
because of or for this reason
The course is good in that it provides a very practical training.
Nowadays it is widely argued that professional sports are damaging to people's health in that they involve gruelling training sessions as an integral part of the occupation.
used to refer to something that can be seen or pointed to
What's that in the corner?
I'd like some of those.
That looks heavy.
used to refer to something that has already been talked about or seen
If you do that, you'll be sorry.
I don't think you should put up with that.
You can't wear those to a wedding.
After that we have a break.
used to make a connection with an earlier statement
My usual train was cancelled. That's why I'm so late.
She tricked him, and that's what really upset him.
I decided not to play football any more! That is why I want to sell them.
used instead of 'who' or 'which' at the beginning of a relative clause
Have you eaten all the cake that I made yesterday?
I like my old-fashioned blue jeans, and the old shoes that I always use.
used for saying that other similar things are included or that the whole of a situation is considered
He told us about his school and all that.
We decided to stay in bed, with it being a holiday and all that.
I really enjoy shopping for clothes, but not only for clothes, also for things like earrings and all that!
used to say that something has ended
Well that's it then, we've finished.
I think that's it for now - I'll email you about the other project next week.
Well, that's it. Good luck and have a good time.
used to say that something is correct
You need to push the two pieces together. That's it.
used to express a reaction to something
I didn't know she'd been so ill. That's terrible.
Turn the engine on, then put the car in gear. That's right.
Smile for the camera. That's more like it.
used to refer to events or experiences in the past
That was before we had a car.
That was when I went to live in Barcelona by myself in a student residence.
used to say that something has happened or a decision has been made and there is nothing more to say or do
I won't agree to it and that's that.
That's it and that's that!" as they say in the "Sorbits-advertisement" Bye!
used to correct something you have said or give more information about something
Everybody was at the meeting, well everyone except Jeanne, that is.
All in all, the students who participated in this programme were quite happy and had an enjoyable time there, except for some, that is.
different things which are not very important
"What are you doing today?" "Oh, just this and that."
He used to call his friends daily, chat about this and that, release the tension through silly jokes, even go out with them once in a while.
used when describing the size, amount, or state of something or someone
She's too young to walk that far.
It wasn't (all) that good.
My English isn't that bad, actually I have been taught English in school for six years.
used before nouns to refer to particular things or people that have already been talked about or are already known
I bought a shirt and some shoes. The shirt was expensive, but the shoes weren't.
Could you pass the salt, please?
I'll pick you up at the station.
I really enjoyed the book I just read.
On Saturday she goes to the cinema.
used before nouns when only one of something exists
Have you seen the Eiffel Tower?
What will happen in the future?
She's travelling round the world.
They live in the north of Spain.
Ed Koch was for many years the mayor of New York.
That day is also the Chinese New Year.
used before some nouns that refer to place when you want to mention that type of place, without showing exactly which example of the place you mean
We spent all day at the beach.
Shall we go to the movies this evening?
I must go to the bank.
I like to go to swimming and go to the beach.
used before superlatives and other words, such as 'first' or 'only' or numbers showing something's position in a list, which refer to only one thing or person
That was one of the best films I've ever seen.
What's the highest mountain in Europe?
I shall never forget the first time we met.
You're the fifth person to ask me that question.
The best present I have ever got was a car from my grandma.
used instead of a possessive adjective such as 'your', 'her' or 'my'
He held her by the arm.
Where did I park the car?
There are a lot of people, and there are a lot of cars, so you would have problems finding a place to park the car.
used before numbers that refer to periods of ten years
the sixties
For example, people in the 1950s who didn't have computers are likely to have had difficulty in checking information, booking tickets, and communicating with each other.
used before each of two adjectives or adverbs to show how one thing changes depending on another
The longer we live here, the more we like it.
In many cases, the more things you learn, the less things you know.
a building with a stage where people go to watch plays
the Lyceum Theatre
You can visit the museum and the theatre because they are very ancient and beautiful.
the floor of a building that is directly above ground level
She works on the first floor.
My bedroom is on the first floor.
the form of a verb or pronoun that is used when people are speaking or writing about themselves. For example, 'I' and 'we' are first person pronouns.
Autobiographies are written in the first person.
the action or crime of stealing something
car theft
Unfortunately, we have had several thefts in the building recently.
So, who was it that made this such a perfectly-organised theft?
the floor of a building that is at the same level as the ground outside
My office is on the ground floor.
We followed them to a new club in Siena. It is on the ground floor of an old building.
the system that connects computers all over the world and allows people who use computers to look at websites
I found out about the book on the Internet.
a company that provides cheap Internet access
She uses the Internet every day.
belonging to or relating to a group of people, animals, or things that have already been talked about
He gave them their coats.
Anyway, that's their problem.
In the afternoon he goes with his wife and visits their friends.
used to refer to what belongs to or relates to a person when you want to avoid saying 'his' or 'her' or when you do not know if the person is male or female
One of the students has left their book behind.
So did this person give their name?
the things that belong or relate to a group of people, animals, or things that have already been talked about
I think she's a relation of theirs.
I think I left my cellphone in your house and it's very important for me because my mother and father can't give me theirs.
the latest possible opportunity for doing something
They only told me at the last minute that they couldn't come.
Why do you always leave everything till the last minute?
We were very disappointed to hear that the actor was replaced by another at the last minute.
used after a verb or preposition to refer to a group of people, animals, or things that have already been talked about
I've lost my keys. I can't find them anywhere.
Say hello to your wife and children. I will have presents for them.
used after a verb or preposition to refer to a person when you want to avoid saying 'him' or 'her' or when you do not know if the person is male or female
When each passenger arrives, we ask them to fill in a form.
the subject of a talk, book, film, etc.
The theme of loss runs through most of his novels.
I think that the basic theme of the book is very original and the author has written lots of great novels.
the social group consisting of well-educated people who have good jobs and are neither very rich nor very poor
These tax increases will affect the middle class badly.
They also show the efforts parents make to keep the family happy, especially when the middle class in Argentina started to struggle after the economic crisis in 2001.
the reflexive form of the pronoun 'they'
Did they enjoy themselves at the theatre?
They asked themselves where they had gone wrong.
They helped themselves to some fruit and sweets.
alone or without anyone else's help
The kids arranged the party all by themselves.
They did the catering themselves.
They've decided to run the club themselves.
Most people in Hong Kong do not make breakfast themselves. They like eating out.
used to emphasize the pronoun 'they' or the particular group of people you are referring to
The staff themselves were unhappy with the decision.
They themselves had no knowledge of what was happening.
Many times they think they themselves have taken part in a car race.
at that time
I was working in the city then.
I'm having a day off on Friday - I could meet you then.
Give it to me next week - I won't have time to read it before/until then.
I'll phone you tomorrow - I should have the details by then.
I saw her at Annie's but I haven't seen her since then.
See you then.
next, or after something has happened
She trained as a teacher and then became a lawyer.
Let me finish this job, then we'll go.
I finish work at 7 o'clock, and then I want to have a bath. After that I will come.
so or because of that
Have a rest now, then you won't be so tired this evening.
"My interview's at 9 o'clock." "You'll be catching an early train, then?"
You can read the text from a song on screen and then you can sing the song.
used in order to add something to what you have just said
I've got two essays to write and then my science project to finish.
This is the standard model, then there's the luxury version which costs more.
If something happens now and then, it happens sometimes but not very often.
I love chocolate, but I only eat it now and then.
If you really love to have a snack now and then, try to eat fruit and vegetables, instead of sweets.
sometimes, but not often
We still meet up every now and then.
Each day choose 10 new words and learn them by heart. In a week you will have learned 70 new words, and in a year 3640, a lot of words. Please, do not forget to repeat them every now and then.
based on ideas rather than practical experience
This explanation is entirely theoretical.
And while we are lucky enough to be discussing this on a theoretical level, it is good to remember that for some people in the world, the lack of money leads to death on a daily basis.
based on the ideas that relate to a subject, not the practical uses of that subject
theoretical physics
Prof. Haken is the renowned head of one of the institutes of theoretical physics at the University of Stuttgart.
in a way that obeys some rules but is not likely
It is theoretically possible.
Already now the problem of hunger and starvation seems immense, though - theoretically - the earthly supplies of food are sufficient to feed the approximately 8,000,000,000 people who live on this planet.
an idea or set of ideas that is intended to explain something
Darwin's theory of evolution
He has a theory that the hole was caused by a meteorite.
During his full time schedule, he worked on his project about "relative theory".
If something is possible in theory, it should be possible, but often it does not happen in that way.
In theory, the journey ought to take three hours, but in practice it usually takes four because of roadworks.
To sum up, in theory you can find a lot of solutions to this problem, but in practice, actually some people who hunt without permission aren't punished.
the set of principles on which a subject is based
economic theory
Only after a few decades of further research did it become clear how many possible applications game theory actually has.
helping to cure a disease or improve your health
the therapeutic benefits of massage
The drink produced, tsikondia, is one of the necessary drinks for the cold nights of winter. It is also believed to have therapeutic effects on people's health.
helping you to feel happier and more relaxed
I find gardening very therapeutic.
Some people consider shopping therapeutic, much like a hobby.
someone whose job is to treat a particular type of mental or physical illness
a speech therapist
Teams for athletes or swimmers are built of: coach, physiologist, diet therapist, physiotherapist, doctor and massage therapist.
the work of treating mental or physical illness without using an operation
speech therapy
group therapy
In another way, I can say that books are the best stress management therapy; they are easy to carry wherever you go.
used to show that something exists or happens
There are three pubs in the village.
There's not much room in the back of the car.
There have been a lot of accidents on this road.
Is there any milk?
There are three swimming pools inside, for different people.
in or at a particular place
We live in York because my wife works there.
I went to the party but I didn't know anyone there.
We'll never get there in time!
The museum is closed today. We'll go there tomorrow.
There's that book you were looking for.
I will be there at 7 o'clock tomorrow.
used when you are pointing or looking at something in order to make someone look in the same direction
Put them in that box there.
Your bag's over there by the door.
used when you are giving someone something
There's some money for your cinema ticket.
"Could I have a pencil?" "Yes. There you are."
at a particular point in a process or activity
Do you want to play another game or do you want to stop there?
I'll have to stop you there, we've run out of time.
Keep on trying - you'll get there in the end.
My misfortunes don't stop there.
in several different places but without any pattern
Tall trees were growing here and there.
In the cinemas there were a few broken seats here and there.
after a particular amount, time, or event
Faxes cost £1.10p for the first page, and 70p for each page thereafter.
The unemployment rate thereafter started to rise yearly and reached its highest rate in March 1998 (approximately 5.5%).
as a result of a particular action or event
The new dam will improve the water supply and thereby reduce hunger and disease.
By interacting live with people from all over the world, you can use non-native languages on a daily basis and thereby help developing your foreign language skills.
for that reason
We were unable to get funding and therefore had to abandon the project.
I want to make it look more modern. Therefore, I've decided to get a CD player and some speakers.
a piece of equipment that measures the temperature of air or of your body
Keep the thermometer under your tongue.
plural of 'this'
These boxes are heavy.
Which apples would you like, the red ones or these?
I like walking around these lakes.
used to talk about the present time
Vegetarianism is very popular these days.
How are you these days?
an area or town next to the sea
We had a picnic at the seaside.
Near the seaside there are so many bars, where you can spend such a nice time.
the form of a verb or pronoun that is used when referring to the person being spoken or written to
'You' is a second person pronoun.
a long piece of writing that you do as part of an advanced university course
a doctoral thesis
For me, this is an advantage because I need to have a lot of information for my doctoral thesis.
a theory that is suggested and can then be argued with or agreed with
That is the central thesis of the book.
This thesis applies not only to music but, in my opinion, also to many other walks of life.
the form of a verb or pronoun that is used when referring to the person or thing being spoken about or described
'She' is a third person pronoun.
the social group consisting of the people of the highest social class, who are usually rich
The upper class usually send their children to expensive private schools.
I've just chosen to travel south and back in time to be a Roman lady, belonging to the upper class of course, living an easy life full of pleasure.
the social group consisting of people who do not get paid much money and who often do physical work
He sees the prime minister's comments as an attack on the working class.
A member of the working class, for example, was not expected to wear something smart, as he didn't represent the company.
used as the subject of the verb when referring to a group of people, animals, or things that have already been talked about
I've known the Browns for years. They're very nice people.
Where are my glasses? They were on the table just now.
There are a lot of shops, restaurants and discos. They are open all day and all night.
used to refer to a person when you want to avoid saying 'he' or 'she' or when you do not know if the person is male or female
"There's someone on the phone for you." "What do they want?"
people in general
They say that breaking a mirror brings you seven years' bad luck.
They say it is getting harder and harder to live without computers. But is it really true?
Something that is thick is larger than usual between its opposite sides.
a thick rope
a thick layer of dust
She picked up a thick volume and began to read out loud.
a thick sweater/coat
The walls are two metres thick.
I have to wear thick clothes.
growing close together and in large amounts
thick forest
thick dark hair
I was looking at a land of moor, marsh, and thick forest.
difficult to see through
Thick, black smoke was pouring out of the chimney.
We tried to walk down the stairs but the smoke was just getting thicker and thicker so we had to climb up on the roof.
If you support or stay with someone through thick and thin, you always support or stay with them in easy and difficult situations.
She'd stuck by Neil through thick and thin.
Fortunately Carol was strong enough to stand by him through thick and thin and made her dearest husband give up drinking.
quickly and in large numbers
Calls were coming in thick and fast by the end of the programme.
someone who steals things
a car thief
Thieves stole £120, 000 worth of computer equipment.
I watched three police officers trying to arrest the thieves but they failed.
the top part of your leg above your knee
My thighs were aching after the climb.
Cycling is - among other things - very healthy, the heart starts pumping blood, your lungs get exercised and of course, you get smashing, sexy thighs.
Something that is thin is smaller than usual between its opposite sides.
a thin slice of meat
The walls are very thin.
a thin jacket
Wear some thin clothes because it will be very hot.
A thin person or animal has very little fat on their body.
She's too thin.
Thin, hungry dogs roam the streets.
He's tall, thin and he has got black hair and black eyes.
If a feeling or explanation starts to wear thin, it becomes weaker or harder to accept.
I've warned you several times about being late and my patience is wearing thin.
Hardly could they fight against others, when their own convictions had started to wear thin.
to suddenly disappear in a mysterious way
He was walking ahead of me on the path and then he just vanished into thin air.
The fact is that vacations are not problem-solving, and whatever one wants to leave behind does not vanish into thin air, it just lurks in the corner of your mind until the returning date.
If you support or stay with someone through thick and thin, you always support or stay with them in easy and difficult situations.
She'd stuck by Neil through thick and thin.
Fortunately Carol was strong enough to stand by him through thick and thin and made her dearest husband give up drinking.
used to refer to something without saying its name
I need to get a few things in town.
How do I switch this thing off?
I don't eat sweet things.
I saw a few things I'd like to get.
Please tell me before you come what things you like to eat.
your possessions or a set of objects
I'll just get my things together and we can go.
All their things were destroyed in the fire.
Bring your swimming things if the weather's nice.
I like this place because the people are happy to work for example on a farm and they don't need a lot of things to be happy.
used to refer to an activity or event
Meeting Nina was the best thing that's ever happened to me.
I've got so many things to do I don't know where to start.
The thing I like best is the dancing.
My favourite thing is reading books!
a fact or characteristic of someone or something
The thing I like about Carol is her sense of humour.
He told me a few things about the army.
Your information is correct but you left out one thing.
Yes, I bought a mobile phone. The thing that I like about it is that it is very useful and it has got lots of cool new things.
used instead of 'anything' in order to emphasize what you are saying
I haven't got a thing to wear.
Don't worry about a thing. I'll take care of it.
We tried to fish, but didn't catch a thing, not even a shoe!
the same
Training isn't the same thing as education.
I had lost my favourite watch. Now I have another watch but it isn't the same thing.
what is happening, especially in your life
How are things with you?
Things have been going very well recently.
How are things in your part of the world? Things are fine with me.
similar objects, activities or events
We eat a lot of Italian food - pizza, pasta, things like that.
I do a lot of football and running and things like that.
used to refer to an idea or comment
I can't believe he would say such a thing!
I got mad and said "How dare you say such a thing."
everything about a situation
I just want to forget the whole thing.
The whole thing is ridiculous!
And, less than five minutes later, our mother knew the whole thing.
used to say that there are other details or examples in addition to the ones you are mentioning
It's worth visiting the museum while you're here. There's an exhibition about Darwin and a good collection of paintings, among other things.
To go by tram or bus is a waste of time and travelling by car is - among other things - a waste of money.
used to emphasize that something does not exist
There's no such thing as ghosts!
But when I asked for these, I was told that no such thing existed and so the advertisement was once again proved wrong.
used to introduce an answer, comment or explanation
I'd love to go out tonight, but the thing is, I've got to finish my report.
The funny/strange thing is that we'd actually met before.
The thing is that on July 23rd I had not found any outfit that suited me yet, which made me feel desperate.
If it's a good thing that something happened, it is lucky or fortunate that it happened.
It's a good thing (that) we booked our tickets early.
I think it's a good thing that your parents are going to come, because ... maybe it would make it easier for you to convince them to let you spend a week here during Xmas.
not anything
After the guests had gone, there wasn't a single thing left to eat.
I'm terribly sorry, but I hit it with my hand while trying to turn on the light: I wasn't able to see a single thing because it was pitch-dark all around.
the most important fact in a situation
You're happy and that's the main thing.
The main thing is to be happy and to love yourself.
used to refer to a person or animal when you are expressing your feelings towards them
You look tired, you poor thing.
He's spending three months in Barbados, lucky thing!
When I go to the zoo I like to see them close by me, and look at them carefully; but at the same time I say: "Poor thing, I wouldn't like to be one of them."
used for saying that something is true in general if you think about all its aspects
The show was a great success, all things considered.
All things considered, it seems like "Kavanagh Catering Services" would be most suitable for the students.
the thing that is best, if you cannot have or do the thing you really want
Coaching football is the next best thing to playing.
For many working people, there is hardly time to cook and prepare your dinner, so the next best thing is to rush into a Macdonalds' or Burger King.
something that is certain to happen
Death is the one sure thing about life.
There is only one sure thing, we are not able to even imagine what we will be able to do in the future to get communicated.
to live, act or behave in the way you want to, without depending on other people
While he was away travelling, he pretty much did his own thing.
Their attitude only stimulated me to do "my own thing".
used to give a reason for something
You can't give Amy that shirt - for one thing it's too small for her.
Well, for one thing, you cannot spy on your subjects 24 hours a day - they would not allow it, and it would be prohibitively expensive.
used to talk about part of a story that happens in a sudden and surprising way
A car came speeding round the corner, and the next thing I knew I was lying on the ground.
And the next thing I knew was that I was playing cards with 3 men.
to believe that something is true, or to expect that something will happen, although you are not sure
I think she's called Joanna.
"Does this train stop at Oxford?" "Yes, I think so."
I never thought (that) I would see Steven again.
I think we've met before.
Do you think it's going to rain?
I don't think Emma will get the job.
I think we will have a good time.
to have an opinion about something or someone
What did you think of the film?
What do you think about modern art?
It would be wonderful to eat chicken with some vegetables. What do you think about that?
to consider doing something
I'm thinking of taking up running.
I think (that) I'll go swimming after lunch.
I'm thinking about buying a new car.
I'm thinking of painting it blue.
to use the brain to plan something, understand a situation, etc.
He thought for a few seconds before answering.
You should think about where you want to live.
I'm so sorry I upset you - I just wasn't thinking.
I thought for a few days and finally decided to buy "Titanic".
to use your imagination and intelligence to produce an idea, a solution to a problem, or an answer to a question
When did you first think of the idea?
I need to think of a suitable way to fix the door.
Suddenly I thought of a simple way to get money from him.
to remember someone or something
I was just thinking about you when you phoned.
I often think of our time in Egypt.
I often think of them. I miss them so much.
to consider a person's needs or wishes
She's always thinking of others.
If you don't think of your family and private life, at least think of your health.
If you cannot think straight, you are not thinking clearly about something.
I was so tired, I couldn't think straight.
My stress wouldn't let me think straight.
to have a particular opinion about someone or something
They were thought of as slightly eccentric.
Today's youth is thought of as lazy "couch potatoes" and unhealthy "computer-freaks", but this is only true for the minority of young people.
to carefully consider whether what you are planning is a good idea
I'd think twice about spending so much money on one thing, if I were you.
Now I will think twice before I buy your paper again.
to do something immediately, without considering whether it is a good idea
When he asked me out, I didn't think twice!
Your advertisement seemed very convincing and as I intended to travel to exotic locations I did not think twice.
to not like someone, or to believe that something is not good quality
I don't think much of the food here.
When they met for the first time, they did not think much of each other.
used to express how surprising something is
Who would have thought that buying a house could take so long!
Who would have thought that instead of getting square-eyed from watching too much TV, Malcolm was getting sore-eyed from spending too much time scribbling in his leather-bound diary late at night?
to admire someone, or to believe that something is good quality
Simon thinks a lot of you, you know.
He was well known all over the world and even critics thought highly of him.
used to say that you have just thought of something
Come to think of it, I've got two batteries that you can have upstairs.
Come to think of it, it really is quite difficult to say.
used to say that you do not want to think about something because it is too worrying
I dread to think what could have happened if we hadn't been wearing seat belts.
I dread to think what has happened to it since the day my younger brother left it in a park.
someone who considers important subjects or produces new ideas
a political/religious thinker
Isaiah Berlin is one of the most important political thinkers of the last century, whose influence on students, politicians and even the greater public is often underestimated.
3rd written as a word
the third road on the right
the third time
"What's the date today?" "It's the third."
She came third in the race.
If you come from the Dorchester side, you will see some houses and the third one is mine.
one of three equal parts of something
He cut the cake into thirds.
Two thirds said we should film the students playing football.
the feeling that you want or need to drink something
We were all suffering from thirst.
Many animals died of hunger and thirst.
a strong wish for something
a thirst for adventure
At that time we were not old enough yet to appreciate this, but today I am very thankful because due to my parents, I've developed a thirst for knowledge that will never be satisfied.
needing to drink
We were hungry and thirsty by the end of our walk.
I felt really thirsty during the match.
You must take a bottle of water because you will be thirsty.
the number 13
eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen
Some people think that thirteen is an unlucky number.
Dear Joshua, I'm writing to tell you that I am now thirteen Years old.
the number 30
twenty, thirty, forty
She got married when she was thirty (years old).
It's thirty years old.
to be aged between 30 and 39
More women are having their first child in their thirties.
He was in his thirties and really handsome.
the years from 1930-1939
They moved to Paris in the thirties.
In the beginning of the thirties in the USA the film industry grew.
used to refer to something that you have already talked about
Most people don't agree with this decision.
How did you hear about this course?
This factory makes fuel tanks for cars.
used to refer to something or someone that can be seen or pointed to
How much is this sofa?
David gave me these earrings for my birthday.
used to refer to the present week, month, year, etc. or the one that comes next
I'll see you this evening.
We're going to Canada later this year.
Kate and Nigel are getting married this June.
My friend's name is LIN XIAO XU, she comes from China. She is 20 years old this year.
used to refer to something that you have already talked about
What's this we've heard about you moving to Scotland?
I've had enough of this!
This is why you should always lock your bike up.
We make a special dish called "bigos".This is cooked cabbage with beef, wild mushrooms and onion.
used to refer to something or someone that can be seen or pointed to
This is the cafe I was telling you about.
How did this get here?
Whose glasses are these?
used to refer to something that is happening or something that you are doing
This is how you prepare the fish.
Is this the first time you've been to London?
different things which are not very important
"What are you doing today?" "Oh, just this and that."
He used to call his friends daily, chat about this and that, release the tension through silly jokes, even go out with them once in a while.
used when describing the size, amount, or state of something or someone
It was only about this high off the ground.
She has never been this late for school before.
careful and including every detail
a thorough revision of the manuscript
They did a thorough search of the area but found nothing.
People believe that school aims to give pupils a thorough education in each subject, in order to enable them to deal with various kinds of situations.
completely, very much
I thoroughly enjoyed the performance.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading "Animal Farm" because it is a satire based on the Russian Revolution.
very carefully
Wash the spinach thoroughly before cooking.
The murder had been thoroughly planned.
plural of 'that'
Those peaches look good.
She also likes walking, shopping and playing games on the computer. We usually do those things together, but in the evenings.
the people or things that
Those who wish to leave may do so now.
Most of the plates are clean. Those that aren't should be put in the dishwasher.
Lately, it has been discussed whether students must study all the subjects or only those which they prefer.
despite the fact that
She hasn't phoned, though she said she would.
Though she's 38, she's still playing tennis at the highest level.
Today the sun is shining and it's quite hot, though it's only 9 o'clock in the morning.
although
Even though it was getting dark, we decided to walk on to the next village.
He still smokes even though he's got asthma.
They didn't give up hope even though they were tired and wet to the bone.
used to describe how a situation seems to be
It looks as though they're not going.
Sometimes it almost looks as though they are crying.
but
They're coming next week, though I don't know which day.
I can read and understand French, though I don't speak it very well.
used especially at the end of a sentence, to add a fact or opinion to what you have just said
Okay, I'll come to the party. I'm not staying late though.
It would be fun to work with you. There are a few things we should think about though.
an idea or opinion or an image that comes into your mind
Do you have any thoughts about/on where you want to spend Christmas?
The thought of seeing her again filled him with happiness.
If you could let me have your thoughts on that report by Friday, I'd be grateful.
Her thoughts were interrupted by Ben, who asked if she wanted to go for a walk with him.
the activity of thinking, or when you think about something carefully
She sat staring at the picture, deep in thought.
You'll need to give the matter some thought.
I am concerned so please give it some thought.
when you do something that shows you care about someone
Thanks for the card - it was a really kind thought.
She could go to the theatre and to the cinema every weekend, she went for marvellous holidays in the most exotic places, and the greeting cards she sent made our woman more and more angry, rather than thankful for the kind thought.
to think about someone who is in a bad situation
Spare a thought for all the people who have lost their homes.
At this point, we should spare a thought for those who are not involved in the sport world.
a series of connected thoughts or ideas which come or happen one after the other
I was interrupted and lost my train of thought.
Stevens's ideas on dignity become very clear if we follow his train of thought through the book and if we examine closely the events which encourage him into further discussion of this issue.
kind and always thinking about how you can help other people
Thank you for phoning when I was ill - it was very thoughtful of you.
She's a very thoughtful person.
It was so thoughtful to think of me and send this letter.
carefully considering things
He has a thoughtful approach to his work.
So we have less time to prepare breakfast, lunch or dinner in a more "thoughtful" manner.
quiet because you are thinking about something
You look thoughtful.
in a thoughtful way
He gazed thoughtfully into the distance.
There were sandwiches, thoughtfully provided by his wife.
She set it beside her husband's picture and looked at it thoughtfully.
not considering how your actions and words might upset someone else
I should have called her to say we'd be late - it was a bit thoughtless of me.
My impulsive nature causes me to act hastily quite often, so I frequently repeat myself because of some bitchy, thoughtless remark I have made.
the number 1000
There were more than three thousand people at the concert.
It will cost only two thousand pounds.
a lot
She tried on thousands of dresses but didn't like any of them.
a long, thin piece of cotton, wool, etc. that is used for sewing
a needle and thread
It takes practice to use a needle and thread well. There’s a loose thread on your dress.
the connection between different events or different parts of a story or discussion
By that point I'd lost the thread of the conversation.
The antagonism between Jack and Ralph, who can be regarded as the novel's main characters, forms - in my view - the real thread of the narrative.
a group of pieces of writing on the Internet in which people discuss one subject
I read the thread about older mothers.
to push thread through the hole in a needle
Could you thread this needle for me, please?
to move carefully through a crowded place, changing direction in order to avoid people or things
She threaded her way through the crowd.
And if I thread my way through the crowd along the street, I can find almost all things I want to buy, from inexpensive souvenirs to internationally known brands of suits.
someone or something that could cause harm or damage
a threat to the environment
Smoking poses a serious threat to your health.
That is the only way to protect human life from this serious threat.
when someone says they will kill or hurt you, or cause problems for you if you do not do what they want
a death threat
I was scared he would carry out his threat.
Since then we have been receiving threats.
the possibility that something bad will happen
the threat of invasion
The threat of nuclear weapons has since grown into a constant condition.
to tell someone that you will kill or hurt them, or cause problems for them if they do not do what you want
He threatened the staff with a gun and demanded money.
He threatened to report her to the police.
The others joined us, and they began to threaten us with their knives.
to be likely to cause harm or damage to something or someone
His knee problem is threatening his cycling career.
In addition to air pollution, more noise will take place and as a result, our city residents' health will be threatened.
If something bad threatens to happen, it is likely to happen.
The conflict threatened to spread to neighbouring countries.
However, this ongoing technological progress became questionable when the atomic bomb threatened to wipe humanity off the face of the earth.
the number 3
I've got three sisters.
School finishes at three o'clock.
I have three daughters.
the level at which something starts to happen
He had a low boredom threshold.
That night...that night - yet another one spent together online turned out to be the final threshold.
at the start of a new and important time or development
We're on the threshold of a new era in European relations.
On the threshold of the third millennium, there is no stopping progress.
a strong feeling of excitement and pleasure
It was a big thrill meeting the stars of the show.
the thrill of winning a competition
SURFING Riding the waves can be the thrill of a lifetime.
to make someone feel excited and happy
Ballesteros thrilled the golf world with his exceptional skill.
The creative process is what thrills me.
very excited and pleased
She was thrilled with your present.
I'm thrilled with the idea of working with you.
a book or film with an exciting story, often about crime
I like reading thrillers.
I'm reading the thriller by Dan Brown: "Angeli e Demoni", it's wonderful.
very exciting
a thrilling game
What has made me hesitate to join a diving club is that deep water really scares me, but at the same time I feel excited by the thrilling feeling.
to grow very well, or to become very healthy or successful
The business is thriving.
He seems to thrive on hard work.
She seems to thrive on criticism and wants to get better at everything she does.
growing very well or becoming very healthy or successful
They have a thriving economy.
In a thriving city such as London, there were loads of things she could do.
the front of the neck, or the space inside the neck down which food and air can go
a sore throat
A fish bone got stuck in my throat.
He cleared his throat and started speaking.
I caught a cold and I have a sore throat too, so I can't talk properly.
to make you feel such strong emotion that you want to cry
It was a very moving speech, and it brought a lump to my throat.
This devastating image brought a lump to John's throat.
the special chair used by a ruler, especially a king or queen
He sat on a throne made of gold.
Some of them were mummified and others were sitting on their thrones in some ancient wall-drawings.
the position of being king or queen
Elizabeth II ascended/came to the throne when her father died.
Queen Victoria was on the throne at that time.
Charles is next in line to the throne.
King Henry at the time of the play is a young vigorous man who needs to have a male heir to the throne of England.
from one end or side of something to the other
We drove through the tunnel.
The River Seine flows through Paris.
The sun was shining through the window.
She cut through the wire.
They walked slowly through the woods.
So, through the windows I can see the sea and it is wonderful.
from the start to the end of something
He worked through the night.
The phone rang halfway through the programme.
It begins in the evening and goes through the night, because it's a very long play.
because of someone or something, or with someone's help
I got the job through a friend of my mum's.
He became ill through eating undercooked meat.
I knew her through my husband, she is my husband's friend's wife.
from one end or side to another
He opened the door and walked through.
The needle just wouldn't go through.
A few bombs crashed close to the car but we managed to get through.
A through train goes all the way from one place to another place without the passenger having to change trains.
We caught the through train to Manchester.
Then go to the information desk and ask about the time of departure of through trains to Lodz.
during the whole of a period of time
He yawned throughout the performance.
This teahouse is packed throughout the day with workers and retired people, who come to sip tea, talk, and watch the endless stream of passers-by in the old city of China.
in every part of a place
The same laws apply throughout much of Europe.
Being the owner of a driving licence has become a dream for the majority of young, middle-aged or even elderly people throughout the world.
in every part of a place or during the whole of a period of time
The house was painted pink throughout.
Children's stories, however, were one of the most successful parts of the Activity Day and all of the spectators were on the edge of their seats throughout.
to make something move through the air by pushing it out of your hand
She threw the ball back over the fence.
I threw the ball to the dog.
Could you throw me an apple?
She threw a glass of water at me.
to put something somewhere quickly and without thinking about it
He threw his clothes on the floor and got into bed.
Also we apologise profusely about the rubbish they throw on the streets.
to suddenly and quickly move your body or a part of your body
She threw her arms around the child.
Gabriela threw herself onto the bed and started to cry.
Emily threw herself into the arms of Jack.
to take a risk
I decided to throw caution to the wind and book a ticket to India.
They just threw caution to the wind, and did what they wanted.
to make someone start a new and difficult job or activity without helping them or preparing them for it
My first job was to organise a huge conference - they really threw me in at the deep end!
Sometimes we can be thrown in at the deep end and have qualms about making a decision.
a very short distance
The cottage is just a stone's throw from the sea.
I'm now living in Clapham, just a stone's throw away from the common, in an awesome bachelor's pad.
to stop trying to do something because you do not think you can succeed
Their candidate should just throw in the towel and admit defeat.
You have to possess tenacity: never throw in the towel.
the short thick finger on the side of your hand which makes it possible to hold and pick things up easily
She still sucks her thumb.
After, we lit the candles, took our seats round the table, put all our hands in front of us above the table and joined thumbs and little fingers to make a circle.
a way of calculating something, which is not exact but which will help you to be correct enough
As a rule of thumb, you need one egg for every 125g flour.
As a rule of thumb, one third of the people working in central Copenhagen go by car, one third by public transport, and one third by bike.
the loud noise in the sky that you hear during a storm
thunder and lightning
They said something about thunder and rain.
a sudden, loud sound that is made by thunder
We heard a clap of thunder.
Suddenly, I heard a loud clap of thunder.
a storm that has thunder and lightning
We sheltered in the barn during the thunderstorm.
On the next day, there was an extraordinary thunderstorm!
the day of the week after Wednesday and before Friday
I'm having my hair cut after work on Thursday.
Thursday morning
We meet on the second Thursday of every month.
On Tuesday, Thursday and Friday I have French and physics.
used after saying a fact to introduce what then happened as a result
They planned to reduce staff and thus to cut costs.
As a result of the density, the atmosphere in the halls also became hot and humid, thus making the whole experience rather unpleasant.
a mark that shows that something is correct or has been done
Put a tick by/against the names of the people who have accepted the invitation.
to make a mark that shows something is correct or has been done
Tick the words you hear in the recording.
If a clock or watch ticks, it makes a sound every second.
The clock ticked loudly.
In the silence he could hear that the heating system was on and the grandfather clock was ticking, punctuating the minutes that passed.
a small piece of paper that shows you have paid to do something, for example travel on a bus, watch a film, etc.
a concert ticket
a train/bus/plane ticket
a lottery ticket
a ticket office
a ticket collector
I'll buy the tickets.
the regular rise and fall in the level of the sea
high/low tide
The tide is out/in.
We visited a marvellous old fishermen's village, that is isolated from the rest of the island during high tide.
having everything ordered and arranged in the right place, or liking to keep things like this
The house was clean and tidy.
My flatmate isn't very tidy.
Everything is very neat and tidy.
Well, my bedroom is not large but it is cozy and tidy.
to make a place or a collection of things tidy
Have you tidied you room, Isabel?
I could also help you to tidy the school after the concert.
to fasten something with string, rope, etc.
The dog was tied to a tree.
This skirt ties at the waist.
She tied the ribbon tightly in a bow/knot.
I tie my hair back when it's hot.
But I knew and felt that my knife was still tied to my leg.
to make a knot in a piece of string, rope, etc.
She tied the scarf.
Could you tie this piece of string for me?
Tie (up) your shoelaces, or you'll trip over.
While Jane was tying the lace, she convinced herself that it was just her imagination.
to have the same score as someone else at the end of a competition or game
Sweden tied with France in the winter sports competition.
to get married
We're planning to tie the knot in April.
She was going to tie the knot in July.
a long, thin piece of cloth that a man wears around his neck with a shirt
He always wears a jacket and tie to work.
I got presents like shoes, ties, shirts, pens, etc.
relationships that connect you with a place, person, etc.
Family ties are weaker if you move a long way away.
I no longer feel any ties with my home town.
He urged governments worldwide to break diplomatic ties with the new regime.
I come from a Greek background, where bonds and ties with one's family are highly valued and respected.
a large wild cat that has yellow fur with black lines on it
The zoo has several tigers.
We saw elephants, tigers, snakes, and monkeys.
fitting your body very closely
a tight skirt
I hate tight trousers.
firm and difficult to move
Make sure the knot is tight.
I kept a tight grip on his arm.
You should always wear a tight seatbelt because it could save your life.
controlled and obeying all rules completely
tight security
The school kept tight control of its policy on school uniform.
The building is huge with high technology and construction and has tight security.
If money, time, or space is tight, there is only just enough of it.
This holiday destination is good for people on a tight budget.
We should get six people into the car but it will be tight.
Finally, as I am a student on a very tight budget, I would prefer a cheap B and B, or a family.
If cloth, wire, skin, etc. is tight, it has been pulled so that it is straight or smooth.
Make sure the wire is tight.
a difficult situation
She had been in a tight corner before and had always managed to cope.
It is a great pressure, requiring a lot of effort and sense of humour but does work in most cases, helping to find the best way out of a tight corner.
very firmly or closely
Hold on tight!
His eyes were shut tight.
He held her tight and kissed her.
so that something is pulled to be straight or smooth
The plastic cover was stretched tight across the tank.
to become tighter or to make something become tighter
His hand tightened around her arm.
Tighten the straps so they don't rub.
As he struggled, the ropes tightened even more.
We tightened up all the screws.
They simply filled the bathtub with ice cold water and tightened the belts.
to try to spend less money
Since I lost my job we've all had to tighten our belts.
All this costs money and where do we get this extra money from but from the tax payers, who once again have to tighten their belts.
firmly or closely
I gripped the telephone tightly.
She hugged me tightly.
She did not want to be eaten, and held her son tightly to her breast.
a piece of women's clothing made of very thin material that covers the legs and bottom
a pair of tights
I like wearing skirts because you can choose nice tights and boots to wear, too!
until
We waited till half past six for you.
Up till 1918, women in Britain were not allowed to vote.
I am going to be busy till 10:30 am.
until
How long is it till your baby is due?
Everything seemed normal till I arrived in Berlin.
wood used for building or trees that are grown to provide this wood
a timber merchant
These trees are being grown for timber.
At this point many reasons can be raised. ... The unscrupulous timber exploitation which destroys animals' natural shelters; and last but not least the illegal hunting which has led to the extinction of many animals.
a long piece of wood used for building, especially houses and ships
roof timbers
a timber-framed building
The old timber house looks almost like it is about to fall apart from the outside but that impression changes quickly once you get inside.
a particular point in the day or night
"What's the time?" "It's ten o'clock."
What time is it?
What time do you finish work?
Would you like to suggest a time for the meeting?
Do you know the times of the trains to London?
Aged four, she could already tell the time.
What would be the best time of day for us to deliver the table?
What time would you like to come?
a particular amount of time
It takes a long time to get from London to Sydney.
It was some time ago that I last heard from her.
We'd save time on our journey if we went by train.
What do you like doing in your spare/free time?
I don't know how you find time to do all the things you do.
I thought we'd give her a bit more time to get the job done.
When Paula was ill, I took her some magazines to help her pass the time.
I prefer Friday, because I've got some free time then.
Time is what we measure in minutes, hours, days, etc.
He wants to spend more time with his family.
If you'd got on with your work instead of wasting time chatting, you'd be finished by now.
She grew more and more fascinated by the subject as time went on/by.
I love this game and the last two days I have spent all my time on it.
an occasion or period, or the experience connected with it
The last time we went to Paris, it rained every day.
We were very young at the time.
Every time/Each time I ask you to do something, you always say you're too busy.
They go swimming three or four times a week.
Did you have a good time at the conference?
We had a good time and all the guests were happy.
continuously
I wish you'd stop criticizing me all the time.
He laughs all the time.
a particular point of the day, week, month, year, etc. that is suitable for a particular activity, or at which something is expected to happen
holiday time
party time
When would be a good time for me to call you?
used to say that something should happen or be done now
It's time I was leaving.
Is it time to go home yet?
My father called me on the phone and told me it was time to go home!
a number of minutes, hours, days, etc. that is available for something or that is needed for something
If I have time, I'll call Sam.
Have you got time for a quick drink after work?
I'd like to learn to sail, but I haven't the time.
I haven't got time to go to the shops today.
She ran out of time and didn't finish the last question.
If you'll have time you can visit the other towns like Cosly' Krumlov or Pisek.
early or at the right time
We arrived in time to catch the train.
If I don't come back in time, you can put a note on my desk.
not early or late
I got to school on time.
So, I will not be on time for my English class tomorrow.
If two things happen at the same time, they happen together.
We arrived at the same time.
The kind of clothes I most like are casual but fashionable at the same time.
used to say how much bigger, better, worse, etc. one thing is than another thing
Ben earns three times more than me.
He gets paid nearly three times as much as me.
In my opinion, you must visit the cities, which are three times better than the countryside.
a week, two months, etc. from now
I have to go to the doctor again in a month's time.
We are back in 2 weeks' time.
used at the beginning of a story to mean a long time ago
Once upon a time there was a beautiful princess.
Once upon a time there was a very poor family.
a period in history
Charles Dickens' novel "A Tale of Two Cities" is set at the time of the French Revolution.
In/During medieval times, women thought to be witches were burnt at the stake.
In times gone by, all crops were harvested by hand.
He is widely regarded as one of the best writers of modern/our times.
We sat and talked about old times.
It was so nice to see all members of the family and have the opportunity to talk about old times, as well as old friends.
sometimes but not often
From time to time I still think of her.
I wash the dishes from time to time (I sometimes try to avoid this unpleasant duty) and clean our house.
for a long period of time
I've been doing yoga for some time.
I have been observing you for some time and it's now quite clear to me that you have been working too hard since you changed your job.
for now but not permanently
I'm living with my parents for the time being.
Leave the ironing for the time being - I'll do it later.
I think that is all for the time being.
If it is about time that someone did something, it should have been done sooner or a long time ago.
It's about time (that) the school improved its meals service.
It is high time for Europe to take responsibility for its own defence.
It's high time we tried to stop all the troubles which are around us.
the time in a particular place
The plane arrives at 20.50, New York time.
My phone number at work is 66291 and at home (after 16.30 local time), 84796.
sometimes
At times, I wish I didn't have to go to school.
STUDYING METHODS All teachers at the college are highly-skilled professionals and can be very demanding at times, but this is in your best interests.
to leave enough time to do something although you are busy
You have to make time to do your homework.
He never made enough time for family life.
I'm terribly sorry for not being able to make time to pick you up when you arrive.
to do something without hurrying
Take your time choosing - there's no hurry.
If you're going to land at the 'Lugano-Agno' airport, as you told me in your last letter, the first thing I recommend to you is to be patient and take your time.
not fashionable or modern
Dad's a bit behind the times.
We should improve our equipment. Otherwise we will be behind the times.
very soon
We'll be home in no time.
Team work is very important for us and you will make many friends in no time.
If you say that it is only a matter of time before something happens, you are sure it will happen but you do not know when.
It's only a matter of time before someone gets killed on this road.
In my opinion it is only a matter of time before it is decided to put an end to this country being a kingdom.
again and again on repeated occasions
She goes back to him time after time.
Time after time he stopped and looked around, not sure if he was alone.
to have no respect for someone or something
I have no time for people who are racist.
First of all it's hard work, I have no time for lazy people.
to criticize someone and make them feel guilty about something they have done
Ever since I missed the goal, the other players have been giving me a hard time.
I'm not saying that I wasn't normal or anything, I just gave my family a hard time sometimes.
used to talk about an occasion in the past without saying exactly which occasion it was
Most of us have made a similar mistake at one time or another.
Haven't we all at one time or another come home from a holiday feeling healthy and strong with a smile on our face thinking, this is what life is about.
used to show that something is not good when it is the best it can be
He's not exactly patient at the best of times.
They knew that even at the best of times he looked unpleasant but now he was of a completely different appearance.
to measure how long it takes for something to happen or for someone to do something
It's a good idea to time yourself while you do the exercises.
to decide that something will happen at a particular time
We timed our trip to coincide with my cousin's wedding.
needing a lot of time
The legal process was time-consuming and expensive.
SMSs are too short and inconvenient to threaten face-to-face communication. They can only transfer a small amount of information and typing them is time-consuming.
multiplied by
What is eight times fourteen?
a list of the times and days of lessons at a school, college, etc.
The first lesson on the timetable for Monday morning is history.
You haven't got the new timetable. The class is next Monday from ten to half past eleven.
a list of times when buses, trains, etc. arrive and leave
Do you have a Birmingham to London train timetable that I could borrow?
a list of dates and times that shows when things will happen
The timetable for our trip to Paris includes visits to Notre Dame, the Eiffel Tower and the Louvre.
Here is the timetable of events for the day.
Could you kindly send me some information about the activities and timetable of the club?
shy and easily frightened
a timid little boy
Mr Garland asked Tom again in his quiet, timid voice.
the time when something happens
"Are we early?" "No, your timing is perfect - dinner is almost ready."
The timing was perfect, the car was waiting for us and it was really easy.
a metal container in which food is sold
a tin of beans
piles of soup tins
The only thing I have is a tin of beans and a laser gun stolen from one of the cyborguards.
a metal container with a lid that you keep food or other substances in
a biscuit tin
a tin of paint
Meanwhile it was 11.15 p.m. and I had just asked my husband to take away the tins of paint from the stairs when suddenly the lights went out.
a silvery-coloured metal, often combined with other metals or used to cover and protect other metals
At one time, the country produced a third of the world's tin.
He kept it in an old tin box, hiding it under his bed in case his parents would discover it.
extremely small
the baby's tiny hands
a tiny little cottage
I was a tiny bit late.
I got a small cottage in a tiny village, called San Bernardino.
a piece of useful advice
He includes a few tips on growing vegetables.
She's given me a number of useful gardening tips.
Dear Julie, Sam, and Max I'm just writing to give you guys some tips about your trip to Brazil.
an extra amount of money that you give to a driver, someone working in a restaurant, etc. to thank them
a 15% tip
He gave the porter a tip.
Have you left a tip for the waiter?
You could also work in a pub or in a restaurant, the advantage there is getting extra money besides the agreed salary, because customers give tips.
the end of something long and narrow
the tips of your fingers
the tip of a pencil
These days there are so many functions available on your mobile phone that you won't have to do much, it's all there at the tip of your finger.
to be a small part of a very big problem
We've corrected a few errors, but they're just the tip of the iceberg.
I'm not used to such behaviour but that was the tip of the iceberg.
a place that is dirty and untidy
His bedroom is an absolute tip.
(tip over) to fall or to make something fall
Her chair tipped over and she fell onto the floor.
A rock under the wheel tipped the van onto its side.
Loud music, the drum playing all day long, the kids playing around the street tipping over trash cans and destroying the grass and gardens and a lot more.
to move so that one side is higher than the other side, or to make something move in this way
The table tipped and all the drinks fell on the floor.
to make the contents of a container fall out by holding the container in a position where this happens
She tipped the contents of her purse onto the table.
to become tired or to make someone become tired
She's been leading throughout the race, but it now looks as if she's tiring.
Even doing the garden tires me these days.
I suggest you have a different subject every day in order not to tire your listeners.
feeling that you want to rest or sleep
I was very tired when I got home from work last night.
She gets very tired in the evenings.
My legs are tired.
Sometimes I don't like doing anything at college, because after work I am very tired.
bored or annoyed by something that has happened too often
I'm tired of listening to her problems.
I never get tired of watching this film, I really love it!
the state of being tired
He said that it was tiredness that led him to make the mistake.
I was overtaken by a sudden wave of tiredness.
I felt so relaxed and my tiredness disappeared almost entirely.
making you feel annoyed or bored
a tiresome little boy
For me it is the best way to relax after a tiresome day full of anxiety and responsibilities.
making you feel tired
I've had a very tiring day.
Looking after three kids is extremely tiring.
The only bad thing is that the trip was a bit tiring.
a soft piece of paper that you use for cleaning your nose
I have some tissues in my bag.
P.S. Bring tissues because you won't stop crying when you watch the film.
the name of a book, film, etc.
The title of Evelyn Waugh's first novel was 'Decline and Fall'.
And this next record is the title track on the album 'The Red Shoes'.
I can't remember the title of the movie.
what you get if you win an important sports competition
He won the 1999 world motor racing title.
He won the national championship and, later, was sold to Barcelona, where he also won many titles.
used with a verb to make an infinitive
She agreed to help.
We were starting to feel cold.
I don't know what to do.
Can you tell me how to get there?
It's not likely to happen.
He told me to wait.
Did anyone ask Daniel to book the room?
There's an awful lot of work to be done.
I need to eat something first.
She likes to go shopping with friends.
used to give the purpose of something or the reason for doing something
I'm going there to see my sister.
This tool is used to make holes in leather.
Dear Robbie, I'm writing to tell you some information about what we're going to do.
used instead of repeating a verb clause
"Are you going tonight?" "I'm certainly hoping to."
"Would you like to come?" "I'd love to."
Yes, I'd love to.
used to emphasize that you could have said something in a much stronger way
We were surprised, to say the least.
You get slightly bored, to say the least.
if you do this, or if this is done
They want to build a completely new school, but to do so would cost far too much.
I would strongly advise you against taking out a loan of this size. To do so would be a great risk to your business.
It is generally believed that if a better education is provided, children are better prepared for adult life. To do so, money is essential.
If you have time, money, etc. to spare, you have more than you need.
I arrived at the station with more than an hour to spare.
I even started to do the shopping on the Net, and I think this is the perfect solution for the business woman with family and little time to spare.
If there is a particular amount of time to go, that time remains.
There are only two weeks of term to go.
Right now this example is very realistic, and as I have just been told there is only 15 min to go, my stress level, I have to admit, is too high.
used to talk about a place or an event where someone goes
We went to Prague last year.
We could go to town on the bus.
I have to go to the dentist this morning.
We received another invitation to a wedding this morning.
I've asked Helen and Ben to dinner next week.
You can walk from here to the station in under ten minutes.
She walked over to the window.
He went up to a complete stranger and started talking.
I like going to London.
used to say 'before' the hour when you are saying what time it is
It's five to three.
used to give information about periods of time
The museum is open from Tuesday to Saturday.
We have the class on Monday from 9 o'clock to 10 o'clock in the morning.
used to show who receives something or experiences an action
I gave the money to my sister.
Give the gun to me.
Anna was speaking to her mother on the phone.
I lent my bike to my brother.
Who's the letter addressed to?
Please bring it to me tomorrow, because I have to return it to my brother.
used to show the position of someone or something
She stood with her back to the window.
I had my back to them, so I couldn't see what they were doing.
John's standing to the left of Adrian in the photo.
The Yorkshire Dales are twenty miles to the north of the city.
My town is situated to the south of Paris.
used to say who is treated in a particular way or who or what is affected by something
What have you done to your hair?
Her evidence was very helpful to the police.
She was very kind to us.
The waiter was really kind to us. We gave him the key of the car and he drove us home.
used to show a relationship with someone
I've been married to Peter for nine years.
She was an assistant to the chief executive.
She's 38 years old and she's married to a Spanish engineer.
used to compare two things
I prefer football to cricket.
She's earning a reasonable wage, but nothing to what she could make in a big company.
I prefer homemade food to restaurant meals.
until a particular time, state or level is reached
It's only two weeks to Christmas.
Unemployment has risen to almost eight million.
She nursed me back to health.
used to say where something is fastened or connected
The paper was fastened to the wall with tape.
A fast rail service connects us to the city.
My mouth became so dry that my tongue stuck to my palate.
used in phrases which show a range
There must have been thirty to thirty-five people there.
up to the present time
This is her best work to date.
I enclose a copy of my curriculum vitae, which will give you further details about my career to date.
used to emphasize that you are giving your own opinion
To my mind, the play was rather disappointing.
To my mind, The Picture of Dorian Gray is probably his best novel.
saying or showing the opposite
She claimed she hadn't been involved, despite evidence to the contrary.
Despite claims to the contrary, young people are getting more involved in sports activities.
used to say that someone feels disappointed/relieved/surprised, etc. by something
To Pierre's disappointment, Monique wasn't at the party.
However, much to my relief, in the end they reached the main square again and all went to the surrounding bars to celebrate the feast in a more relaxed way.
until you die
He was beaten to death by a gang of youths.
She would have been trampled to death as the stampede of furious fans came over her.
in all the most important ways
To all intents and purposes, the project was a disaster.
To all intents and purposes, the qualities needed to achieve success are based on the same ideas.
If something someone says or writes is to the point, it expresses the most important things without extra details.
His report was short and to the point.
as well as someone wants
He won't get paid until he completes the job to my satisfaction.
Should this matter not be solved to my satisfaction, I will have no choice but to place it in the hands of my solicitor.
bread that has been heated to make it brown
a slice of toast
I have toast and marmalade for breakfast.
They prefer toast, muesli and a cup of tea or coffee for breakfast.
a time when people lift their glasses and drink because they want someone to be successful, happy, etc.
At the wedding, there was a toast to the happy couple.
During the wedding meal, it is good manners to propose a toast to the bride and the bridegroom when they come to your table.
dried leaves that are inside cigarettes
Twenty-eight per cent of people asked thought that the advertising of tobacco and alcohol should be banned.
People are becoming more aware also due to the Ministry of Health's propaganda, marketing a healthy diet and exercise plus limiting adverts on alcoholic drinks and tobacco.
on this day
What's the date today?
It's Annabelle's birthday today.
He's going to ring you at some point today.
If you ring me today, I can make some cake.
in the period of time that is happening now
Today, people are much more concerned about their health than they were in the past.
Today we cannot go to a place without seeing a computer.
this day
Today is even hotter than yesterday!
Is that today's paper?
Today is my birthday.
the period of time that is happening now
With today's technology almost anything seems possible.
However, technology has made immense steps forward and the cars of today come close to perfection.
a child who has just learned to walk
I was looking after three toddlers.
These meetings for mothers with toddlers should take place more often than once a month.
one of the five separate parts at the end of your foot
your big/little toe
I have to go to the doctor because I've broken my toe.
to make sure that someone gives all their attention to what they are doing and is ready for anything that might happen
We have random inspections to keep everyone on their toes.
one of the hard, flat parts on top of the end of your toes
I need to cut my toenails.
with each other or doing something with each other
We used to go to aerobics together.
We worked together on a project a couple of years back.
The waiter asked if we were all together so I explained that we were two separate parties.
We should get together some time and have a drink.
We love to go to the cinema or just sit together and have a laugh.
at the same time
Everyone seemed to arrive together.
We can deal with the next two items on the list together.
He came to my house early in the morning and then we left together.
used to say that two or more things are joined to each other, mixed with each other, etc.
She tied the two pieces of rope together.
Could you add these figures together for me?
You mix all the dry ingredients together before you add the milk.
You could stick that back together with a bit of glue.
I like both flavours separately but I don't like them together.
combined
Together they must earn over ninety thousand dollars a year.
The money that I owe you for the telephone together with the rent equals £300.
When you ride a bike on the main road, it's very dangerous to breathe the dirty air - together with the gases from the cars.
in one place
I'll just gather my things together and then we can go.
a bowl that you sit on or stand near when you get rid of waste substances from your body
I was on the toilet when the phone rang.
Don't forget to flush the toilet.
The toilet seat was cracked and there was no paper.
I can remember I left it on the table near the toilet.
a room or small building in a public place in which there are several toilets
Do you know where the ladies' toilets are?
Hello Jo, The information is near the toilets.
to empty the body of urine or solid waste, usually using a toilet to do so
It's going to be a long journey, kids, so if you want to go to the toilet do so now.
I left my watch at your house last night. ... I went to the toilet and put it on the basin.
something that you give to someone in order to show them love, to thank them, etc.
I gave Helen some chocolates as a token of thanks for all her help.
Nevertheless, you can also prepare a small present as a token of your friendship or affection.
in a similar way
You have to let people know your plans in good time and, by the same token, they should give you some advance warning.
Our college will only benefit from this event as long as it gives a nice and memorable impression. By the same token, we should all be well prepared and visualise beforehand possible manoeuvres that could appear, so that we can control the situation.
willingness to accept behaviour and beliefs which are different from your own, although you might not agree with or approve of them
This period in history is not noted for its religious tolerance.
Some members of the party would like to see it develop a greater tolerance of/towards contrary points of view.
One needs to develop a spirit of tolerance, respect and even appreciation towards world views and practices that might differ from one's own.
allowing people to do what they want especially when you do not agree with it
a tolerant attitude
I think we're becoming more tolerant of children in public places.
During my stay, I was living with a family that was very generous and tolerant.
to accept or allow something although you do not like it
I will not tolerate that sort of behaviour in my class.
We will not tolerate racism of any sort.
He couldn't tolerate anybody disturbing childrens' lives for the sake of money, because he was a very moral man.
to be able to deal with something unpleasant and not be harmed by it
It seems these ants can tolerate temperatures which would kill other species.
In comparison with wealthy children, they can tolerate the enormous weather changes like both extremes of hot and cold weather as they are not much exposed to air conditioners and heaters.
money that you pay to use a bridge, road, etc.
You have to cross a toll bridge.
The government can introduce road toll fees on some highly used roads, so that some traffic will be encouraged to use a different route.
the number of people who are killed or injured
Independent sources say that the death toll from the earthquake runs into thousands.
There would be no surprise at all if the death toll rises.
to have a bad effect on someone or something, especially over a long period of time
The stress was starting to take its toll on him.
The famine has obviously taken its toll on him.
a soft, round, red fruit eaten in salad or as a vegetable
a cheese and tomato sandwich
I like salad - tomatoes, carrots, cucumbers, sweetcorn.
a place where a dead person is buried, usually with a stone structure
He is buried in a marble tomb.
My father opened it slowly and we saw a huge marble tomb behind it.
on the day after today
I'll call you tomorrow.
I've arranged to see Rachel tomorrow night.
Oh, leave it till tomorrow.
Tomorrow I must work in the shop, but in the evening I've got time and can come to you at 7 o'clock.
the day after today
Is John coming to tomorrow's meeting?
Tomorrow is Friday.
Tomorrow is the Chinese new year.
the future
the children of tomorrow
In fact, young children are our future and what tomorrow's world will be depends a lot on what kind of adults our children will be.
a unit for measuring weight, equal to 1016 kilograms in the UK and 907 kilograms in the US
They generated nearly 6 tons of rubbish.
It was at this point I saw a twenty ton lorry speeding towards them.
a lot of something
We've got tons of things to do before they arrive.
There were tons of handmade items!
the quality of a sound, especially of someone's voice
I tried to use a sympathetic tone of voice.
It wasn't so much what she said that annoyed me - it was her tone.
Paul, the leader of the group, shouted: "Keep quiet" and he went on in a quiet tone: "They want this kind of reaction, they want to frighten us...
an electronic sound made by a telephone
a dialling tone
Quickly, a man got the phone and was trying to call the police but there was no tone.
the general mood or style of something
I didn't like the jokey tone of the article - I thought it inappropriate.
He was in a very bad mood when he arrived, and that set the tone for the whole meeting.
This would be in order for them to act more like a group of friends rather than simple presenters, and, therefore, set the tone of the programme.
the large soft piece of flesh in the mouth which you can move and which you use for tasting, speaking, etc.
I burnt my tongue on some soup last night.
My mouth became so dry that my tongue stuck to my palate.
the first language that you learn when you are a child
Italian is my mother tongue but I started to learn English when I was six.
I can speak English and French fluently, added to my mother tongue, Japanese.
during the night of the present day
I hope you sleep well tonight.
Tonight there's going to be a party.
I think I left my mobile phone in your house last night. It's very important for me because I have to call my father tonight.
the night of the present day
Tonight will be my first opportunity to meet her.
Tonight's meeting will take place in the main school hall.
used before adjectives and adverbs to mean 'more than is allowed, necessary, possible, etc.'
Do you think this jacket is too big for me?
There are too many cars on the roads these days.
We enjoyed the film but it was much too long.
There were far too many people for such a small room.
Maths is too hard for me sometimes.
also
Do you know Jason too?
I'll probably go there next year too.
I'd like to come too.
"I love chocolate." "Me too."
Do you like it, too?
used before adjectives and adverbs to mean 'not very'
"How was your exam?" "Not too bad, I suppose."
I didn't play too well today.
He wasn't too happy when I told him about the mistake.
How are you? I'm not too bad.
used to say that you are sorry about a situation
"He didn't get the job." "Oh, that's too bad."
Too bad you couldn't come to my party.
a piece of equipment that you use with your hands in order to make or repair something
power tools
The only tools you need for this job are a hammer and a screwdriver.
And, of course, she got a set of excellent tools and I won only one thing: a tube of modelling glue.
a thing that helps you to do a particular activity
Computers are an essential tool for modern scientists.
From my personal experience, I can also say that a personal computer is also an amazing tool.
something that helps you to do what needs to be done or you want to do
We believe the new law will be an effective tool in fighting poverty.
If you look at fame as a tool for helping others you will soon understand it is worth it.
one of the hard white objects in the mouth, which are used for biting and chewing
front/back teeth
a broken/missing tooth
false teeth
Brush/Clean your teeth thoroughly morning and night.
I had to have a tooth out.
It is important for me, because without it I can't clean my teeth.
to accept a difficult situation and deal with it in a determined way
I don't particularly enjoy running, but I grit my teeth and do it in order to keep fit.
pain in one or more of your teeth
Have you got toothache?
I have toothache and I have to go to the dentist.
a small brush that you use to clean your teeth
I forgot to pack my toothbrush.
I think I left my toothbrush at your house.
a substance that you use to clean your teeth
Put a small amount of toothpaste on the brush.
Modern technology has changed our lives in many ways. When I have to wake up earlier, I use my alarm clock, and if I have to brush my teeth, I use my toothbrush with a little toothpaste.
the highest part of something
She waited for me at the top of the stairs.
There were cherries on top of the cake.
We reached the top of the mountain in just under 6 hours.
When I went to the top of the castle, I could see a beautiful view of Edinburgh.
a piece of clothing worn on the upper part of the body
a black/striped top
I need a top to go with these trousers.
I like wearing formal clothes but at a party I usually wear jeans and a nice top.
in addition to something else that is bad
On top of all this bad luck, he lost his mobile phone.
And then, on top of everything else, her car was stolen!
On top of everything, the weather was bad and the sea was so cold that I couldn't swim.
the most important position in a company, team, etc.
At forty he was already at the top of his profession.
Besides she climbed to the top of her profession, when no one expected her to.
too extreme and not suitable
I thought her performance was way over the top.
In addition to that, many so-called "stars" have that certain over the top attitude, which would not be welcome in normal life.
to be very happy
I had just won a major tournament and I was feeling on top of the world.
I felt like I was on top of the world and nothing could take that happiness from me.
completely
I've searched the house from top to bottom and still can't find it.
Very often we can see someone in black, from top to bottom, or in white.
at the highest part of something
There's a dirty mark on the top left-hand corner of the photo.
The offices are on the top floor of the building.
He was standing on the top rung of a ladder.
My bedroom is quite big and on the top floor.
the best, most important, or most successful
He's one of the country's top athletes.
So what would be your top choice for a holiday?
As a chess player, he's among the top 10% in the country.
top jobs
top universities
In the future I hope to be a clothes designer or a top model.
in the position of being most important or successful
She came top in the maths test.
to be the most important, most successful, etc
The record topped the charts for five weeks.
She topped the bill at the festival.
It was in summer 1993 when Paul McCartney proved once again that he still is topping the bill.
to be covered with something
lemon tart topped with cream
Again leave some room for the sweets, displayed on a tray: cream caramel topped with hazelnut ice cream or a slice of chocolate tart.
a subject that you talk or write about
Our discussion ranged over various topics, such as climate change and nuclear weapons.
Do you know that food is one of my favourite topics of conversation?
a small electric light that you hold in your hand
She shone the torch into the dark room.
After fifteen minutes of walking, we got into a cave. It was dark, so we turned on our torches.
an extremely strong and dangerous wind that blows in a circle and destroys buildings as it moves along
A tornado had swept through the north of the state, causing terrible destruction.
The storm was getting very wild outside, she wasn't sure if it was a real tornado, she had never seen one, but somehow she could sense the danger.
Torrential rain is very heavy rain.
The rain was absolutely torrential.
All he could hear was the sound of torrential rain hitting the windows and the roof of the hotel.
a very unpleasant experience
I had to sit there listening to her for two whole hours - it was torture!
I would be grateful if I could get some of my money back, because the days in Scotland were a torture to me.
the act of causing someone great physical or mental pain, often in order to make them tell you something
He revealed the secret under torture.
Tyranny and torture are installed with Roger as the executioner.
to cause someone severe pain, often in order to make them tell you something
It is claimed that the officers tortured a man to death in 1983 in a city police station.
And they would torture him and kill him like an animal, as soon as they were convinced that he had no chance of finding the money.
to throw a coin in the air and guess which side will land facing upwards as a way of deciding something
She tossed a coin to decide who would get the prize.
The question was who would be the person to do this action so we tossed a coin, and the result was me.
to throw something somewhere carelessly
He read the letter quickly, then tossed it into the bin.
When she woke up, she saw his stupid face smiling at her and she quickly tossed it in the drawer, noticing her tears trickle and fall.
be unable to sleep properly
I was tossing and turning for most of the night.
As she tossed and turned, unable to sleep, she started going over the events that had taken place before that evening.
the amount you get when you add several smaller amounts together
That figure at the bottom of the column is the total.
A total of 21 horses were entered for the race.
We made £700 in total, over three days of trading.
My holiday started from last Sunday morning for a total of ten days.
including everything
the total cost
Total losses were $800.
The total cost was only £60, including lunch, and I think it was worth every penny of it.
extreme or complete
total silence
The whole evening was a total disaster.
That's total rubbish.
The room was in total darkness and I couldn't hear anything.
to add up to a particular amount
This is the eighth volume in the series, which totals 21 volumes in all.
And there has been a significant increase in insurance, up by 5%, totalling 8% of the total expenses.
belonging to a political system in which the people in power have complete control and do not allow anyone to oppose them
The people overthrew the totalitarian regime.
Its descriptions are sometimes shocking since his work is about totalitarian regimes and people living on the fringes of society.
completely
They're totally different.
I'd totally forgotten I'd arranged to meet her.
I totally agree with you.
But in the new class, it is totally different.
to put your hand on something
That paint is wet - don't touch it.
He touched the girl on the arm to get her attention.
Suddenly, someone touched my arm and I screamed.
If two things touch, they are so close to each other that there is no space between them.
These two wires must not touch.
Out of the blue, I felt the wheels touching the ground.
to affect your emotions, especially so that you feel pleased or a little sad
I was deeply touched by her letter.
Her stories are based on real life, so they're not only easy to read but also touch our hearts.
to not harm someone or not damage something
Don't worry about them - they can't touch you.
She goes to a place that is clean, where the heat and dust can't touch her any more.
to communicate or continue to communicate with someone by telephoning, or writing to them
Are you still in touch with any of your old school friends?
Jane and I never kept in touch after college.
I'll be in touch again soon.
to stop communicating with someone, usually because they do not live near you now
We lost touch over the years.
When he went into the information centre, he saw Mary, who he used to go out with - for some reason, they had lost touch with each other.
when you put your hand or finger on something
I felt the touch of his hand on my face.
At the touch of a button, the door opened.
In a shopping centre you may search for something for hours, but on the internet you can find everything with the touch of a button.
the ability to feel things by putting your hand on them
the sense of touch
The material was soft to the touch.
a small amount
Add a little olive oil and a touch of vinegar.
There was a touch of irony/humour in her voice.
It gives a touch of colour in our dull, black and white area.
a small detail that makes something better
The speech had several comic touches.
Using a sailing ship as the company badge was a touch of genius.
The flowers on the table provided the finishing touch.
For most of us, music is the essential spice that makes our feelings stronger, the perfect finishing touch to a scene that we have created ourselves.
used to describe a situation that is uncertain
The doctor says it is touch and go whether Mary will recover.
The idea of earning a lot certainly appeals to me but it's touch and go whether the job may bring a lot of money right from the start.
to know little about what has recently happened
I've been abroad for the last two years, so I'm very out of touch.
In much worse cases, some individuals may even be trapped in the virtual world and get out of touch with the real one.
difficult
He's had a tough time at work recently.
We've had to make some tough decisions.
Homeless people are facing a tough winter.
You know it was really a very tough decision for me.
Tough people are mentally strong and not afraid of difficult situations.
You have to be tough to be successful in politics.
It is about a tough old fisherman from Cuba who sails out alone in a small boat to fish.
describes food that is difficult to cut or eat
This steak is very tough.
Your pork chop was as tough as old boots and the salad dressing was sour!
Tough rules are severe.
Tough new safety standards have been introduced for cars.
There have been calls for tougher controls/restrictions on what newspapers are allowed to print.
After some tough bargaining, we finally agreed on a deal.
I think it's time the police got tougher on/with people who drink and drive.
The government is continuing to take a tough line on terrorism.
not easy to break or damage
The play equipment needs to be very tough.
I need a tough pair of boots.
unfair or unlucky
It can be tough on kids when parents get divorced.
It was tough on the worn out employees.
the quality or state of being tough
She has a reputation for toughness.
They can't face the toughness of the competition.
I would be less lax than my daddy was so as to accustom them to the toughness and brutality of life, so that they could face many difficulties in their lives.
a visit to and around a place, area, or country
a tour of Europe
We went on a guided tour of the cathedral.
The band are on tour.
First I'd like us to go to a cafe and after that you can give me a tour around the town.
to go on a tour somewhere
We spent a month touring (around/round) Kenya.
The New Zealand team will be touring in Europe this winter.
The band are currently touring to promote their new album.
She and her husband came over to England for a short stay and are touring Europe on a second honeymoon as it's the 10th anniversary of their marriage.
someone whose job is to show visitors a place or area
Our tour guide explained the church's history.
I am happy to hear that you want to visit my country next holiday, and I can be your tour guide.
the business of providing services for tourists, including organizing their travel, hotels, entertainment, etc.
Tourism is Venice's main industry.
These beautiful old towns have remained relatively untouched by tourism.
As you know, Peru is one of the countries with the most tourism around the world.
someone who visits a place for pleasure and does not live there
Millions of tourists visit Rome every year.
Disneyworld is one of Florida's major tourist attractions.
While missing big tourist attractions like Rio de Janeiro, you can always visit our Shopping Centre, which is one of the biggest in Brazil.
a competition with a series of games between many teams or players, with one winner at the end
a tennis/chess/golf tournament
They were defeated in the first round of the tournament.
I met him at a basketball tournament and his name is Mark.
in the direction of someone or something
She stood up and walked towards him.
He leaned towards his wife and whispered, "Can we go home soon?"
She kept glancing towards the telephone.
We took the train from Paris to Bordeaux, and from there we started to cycle towards the sea.
in relation to something or someone
They've always been very friendly towards me.
He feels a lot of anger towards his father.
She always has a positive attitude towards life.
His parents were very cold towards me.
near to a time or place
Our seats were towards the back of the theatre.
I often get hungry towards the middle of the morning.
We're getting towards winter and it's getting dark earlier.
If I had told somebody fifty years ago that women would have leading political positions towards the end of the century, he or she would have most probably considered me as being mad.
for the purpose of buying or achieving something
I'm saving up to buy a car, and Dad has given me some money towards it.
Would you like to make a contribution towards a present for Linda?
The work that students do during the term counts towards their final grade.
I hope that these recommendations will go a long way towards improving your museum and having satisfied visitors.
a soft piece of cloth or paper that you use for drying yourself or for drying something
a bath/beach towel
She came downstairs wrapped in a towel.
Dry your hands on a paper towel.
You have to bring a bottle of water and a towel.
to stop trying to do something because you do not think you can succeed
Their candidate should just throw in the towel and admit defeat.
You have to possess tenacity: never throw in the towel.
a very tall, narrow building, or part of a building
the Eiffel Tower
There's a clock on the church tower.
He works in an office tower in downtown San Francisco.
I think that, first of all, we should visit our capital because it has many old towers, castles and churches, which you have to see.
a place where people live and work, usually larger than a village but smaller than a city
It's a small town in the north of England.
a seaside/industrial town
a fishing/mining town
He was born in the small town of Castleford, in Yorkshire.
He is from Lithuania and he lives in my town.
the central area of a town where the shops are
I usually go into town on a Saturday.
Shall I meet you in town?
Last night was the best, I went to dance at the best disco in town.
poisonous
toxic chemicals/fumes/waste
Paris throws out billions of tons of toxic gases into the atmosphere, and in the summer months, it's wrapped in a veil of toxic haze, from power stations, factory chimneys, and from the exhausts of cars and lorries on the streets.
an object for children to play with
cuddly/soft toys
a toy train/farm/soldier
Put your toys away now - it's time for bed.
She gave me a large soft toy.
to find someone or something that was lost
The police are trying to trace the mother of a newborn baby found abandoned outside a hospital.
Attempts to trace the whereabouts of a man seen leaving the scene of the crime have so far been unsuccessful.
Their missing daughter was finally traced to Manchester.
So you can hire the best people you can find to trace the bad guy and get rid of him.
to discover the cause or origin of something
The outbreak of food poisoning was traced to some contaminated shellfish.
The practice of giving eggs at Easter can be traced back to festivals in ancient China.
Rivalries between the gangs can be traced back to the 1950s in some black and Hispanic neighbourhoods.
No one has yet been able to trace the source of the rumour.
It is my firm belief that what is usually referred to as "lacking motivation" can always be traced back to this question of meaning and comradeship.
proof that someone or something was in a place
There was no trace of her anywhere.
When she moved out, she left no trace of having been there.
He seems to have disappeared without trace.
There were no traces of anything alive nearby.
a narrow path or road
We followed a dirt track off the main road.
However, on the second day, the sun appeared, and we went on a mountain track.
a path, often circular, used for races
a race track
The runners are now on their final lap of the track.
There are 3 football fields, 4 basketball fields, an athletics track, 4 tennis fields, and a bar and changing rooms.
one song or piece of music on a CD, record, etc.
The album includes four previously unreleased tracks.
It is a really good idea to give every CD a book containing information about every track on the disc and about the performance.
a sport in which people compete with each other by running a race on a specially prepared circular path
a track event
Since that time I have been reading every article about track and field.
a mark or line of marks left on the ground or on another surface by an animal, person or vehicle which has moved over it
Police found tyre tracks in the mud.
The hunters followed the tracks of the deer for hours.
The burglars were careful not to leave any tracks behind them.
I saw some tracks on the floor. I went to the bedroom and near the bed I saw a big cat with its kittens.
to not know what is happening to someone or something any more
I've lost track of how much we've spent.
Time passed like an arrow and they lost track of time until they realised it was getting dark.
the long metal lines which a train travels along
a 10-mile stretch of track
Passengers are requested not to walk across the tracks.
When the train enters a small town in Northern Switzerland, the visitor will be surprised by hundreds of fan posters and flags along the rail track.
making progress and likely to succeed
A fighter from Edinburgh is on track to become world heavyweight boxing champion.
We've got a lot of work to do but we're on the right track.
The sales teams are well on track and bringing in new customers every day.
to continue to know about someone or something
He changes jobs so often I can’t keep track any more.
Be sure to keep track of the time so you won't be late.
Trying to keep track of these changes by translating them would be an inappropriate task.
in a place where few people go
I prefer to take my holiday somewhere off the beaten track.
Furthermore, in areas off the beaten track, there are not even police sometimes.
a very quick way of achieving or dealing with something
These intensive courses claim to offer a fast track to wealth and success.
If I ever found a job which lives up to these expectations, I would consider myself on a fast track already.
the direction in which someone's job or education develops
She was a lawyer, but then she changed track completely and became a doctor.
to follow a person or animal by looking for proof that they have been somewhere, or by using electronic equipment
It's difficult to track an animal over stony ground.
The military use radar satellites to track targets through clouds and at night.
The terrorists were tracked to Amsterdam.
It is her eventually who may be considered as the involuntary cause of Chen's death, by keeping on sending money to China and then allowing the Mafia to track him.
to record the progress or development of something over a period
The project tracks the effects of population growth on the area.
However, it would be useless to track the outbreak of wars and to judge humanity for not learning.
loose, comfortable trousers and a top, especially worn for exercising
He was wearing a tracksuit and trainers.
I also like wearing tracksuits, because they are very soft and warm.
a strong vehicle with large back wheels used on farms for pulling things
He started up the tractor.
Farmers who used to practise traditional farming are now introducing machinery such as tractors.
the buying and selling of large numbers of goods or services, especially between countries
The country's trade in manufactured goods has expanded in the last ten years.
They rely heavily on trade with Europe.
The two countries have signed a trade agreement for one year only.
You know, I work in a foreign trade company so I have to be well dressed.
someone's job, especially one which needs skill in using their hands
He's a builder by trade.
He left school at 15 to learn a trade.
At the age of 15 he left school and started to learn a trade.
a particular area of business or industry
the building/catering/tourist trade
Having considered the previous factors, I am further convinced that the host country can develop itself rapidly by enhancing the tourism trade.
to buy and sell goods or services, especially between countries
For centuries, Native Americans traded with European settlers.
The company has been trading in oil for many years.
The two countries have become close trading partners.
Our books are traded right across Asia.
His story is interesting: he first worked in a little shop in Bourges and started trading in France, then in Europe, and in Asia.
a person who buys and sells things
His ancestors were fur traders.
She's a trader on Wall Street, working for a big financial company.
After spending a few months over there he got back to Switzerland, where he worked in a private bank as a trader in the bond market.
a custom or way of behaving that has continued for a long time in a group of people or a society
Fireworks have long been an American tradition on the Fourth of July.
There's a long/strong tradition of dance in St Petersburg.
We decided to break with tradition this year and go away for Christmas.
Nevertheless, Leipzig has always been an attractive town for tourists, because of its well-known fair and its cultural traditions.
following the customs or ways of behaving that have continued in a group of people or society for a long time
traditional farming methods
The dancers were wearing traditional Hungarian dress/costume.
She's very traditional in her ideas.
If you come to visit me, I'll invite you to "La Provincana" to have traditional Argentinian food.
according to tradition or in a traditional way
Chestnuts are traditionally eaten at Christmas.
Traditionally, the company's main markets have been Britain and the US.
You will be able to try our special sausages, produced traditionally in our city!
the cars, trucks, etc. using a road
The traffic is heavy in both directions.
We got stuck in traffic for several hours.
Five people were injured in a traffic accident.
If you want to have a nice time, leave the hotel early in the morning because in this way, you can miss the rush-hour traffic.
the planes or ships moving around an area
air traffic control
We are not asking you to close down the airport but we suggest that you check whether all the charter and freight traffic has to be directed to this airport - there might be an airport in a less densely populated area to use for these purposes.
a line of cars, trucks, etc. that are moving slowly or not moving at all
They got stuck in a traffic jam.
Cities are always crowded; there are lots of traffic jams, so they are very polluted.
a set of red, green, and yellow lights that is used to stop and start traffic
Turn left at the traffic lights.
You walk from your house, and then you turn left at the traffic lights.
an event or situation which is very sad, often involving death
His life was touched by hardship and personal tragedy.
They had only recently arrived in London when tragedy struck - their son was killed in a traffic accident.
The people who cause those tragedies are irresponsible drivers.
very sad, often involving death and suffering
Her tragic death at the age of 36 shocked the world.
He was killed in a tragic accident.
Hospital authorities admitted that a tragic error had taken place.
For instance, the tragic death of Princess Diana is an example of what a journalist must not do.
in a way that is very sad
She died tragically young.
Tragically, the side-effects of the drug were not discovered until many people had been seriously damaged by it.
She improved his eyesight and tragically disappeared.
a path through the countryside, often made or used for a particular purpose
a forest/mountain trail
After 6 miles of the trail we decided to stop and put our blanket on the ground.
the smell or series of marks left by a person, animal or thing as it moves along
The dogs are specially trained to follow the trail left by the fox.
He left a trail of muddy footprints behind him.
Azman and I were looking at a trail of fresh blood leading into the woods.
to walk slowly and without enthusiasm or energy
Her small daughter was trailing along behind her.
to have a lower score than someone else, especially in a sports event
City were trailing United 1-2 at half time.
They were trailing by four points, but still, they had possession of the ball.
a long, thin vehicle which travels along metal tracks and carries people or goods
the train to/from Bristol
a train journey/station
Did you come by train?
She caught/took the train to Edinburgh.
Hurry up, or we'll miss the train.
The best way to come to my place is to take a train from Weybridge.
a series of connected thoughts or ideas which come or happen one after the other
I was interrupted and lost my train of thought.
Stevens's ideas on dignity become very clear if we follow his train of thought through the book and if we examine closely the events which encourage him into further discussion of this issue.
to practise a sport or exercise, often in order to prepare for a sporting event, or to help someone to do this
He's been training hard for the race for several weeks now.
She told me that they are training for a tournament which is in about four weeks.
to teach someone how to do something, usually a skill that is needed for a job
We are training all our staff in how to use the new computer system.
The aid workers trained local people to give the injections.
I think I could be suitable for the job because I have some experience of training people.
to learn the skills you need to do a job
He trained as a lawyer in Vienna.
For example, one of my father's friends who was trained as a computer engineer received the only job vacancy for economy-related work in a very good company just because he graduated from the best university in Taiwan.
someone who is learning how to do something, especially a job
a trainee accountant/teacher
I work as a trainee at a big international trader company at Brazil, and there we had some problems of motivation in the workplace, and to resolve the problem we made a lot of changes and arrangements in our company.
a type of light comfortable shoe that is suitable for playing sport
a pair of trainers
If you haven't got walking boots, you can just wear trainers.
Rafael, I think I have left my trainers at your house.
a person who teaches skills to people or animals and prepares them for a job, activity or sport
a teacher trainer
a fitness trainer
They showed pictures of the horse and its trainer.
The trainer is O.K., too, and he told me that I can play in the team in four to five weeks.
the process of learning the skills you need to do a particular job or activity
a training course
a teacher-training college
New staff have/receive a week's training in how to use the computers.
I decided to join the new class because I am taking training in broadcasting now, so I need to improve my English.
preparation for a sport or competition
football training
After the training, the team invited me to the club party next weekend.
a quality, good or bad, in someone's character
a family trait
The latter makes her more sympathetic if anything to a modern reader, but her naivety and weakness for the attention and luxury given by the Nawab are not very likeable traits.
an electric vehicle for carrying passengers, mostly in cities, which moves along metal lines in the road
We took the tram to the city centre.
You can get the tram.
calm and quiet
a tranquil garden
Unfortunately, though, this tranquil paradise has been destroyed year by year, by the uncontrolled tourism.
the quality of being tranquil
I love the tranquility of the lake.
Suddenly shattering the tranquility was a high pitched alarm bell being rung energetically.
when someone buys or sells something, or when money is exchanged
a business transaction
Each transaction at the foreign exchange counter seems to take forever.
We need to monitor the transaction of smaller deals.
This new service guarantees you a quick transaction direct from your home.
to move someone or something from one place to another
He has been transferred to a psychiatric hospital.
Police are investigating how £20 million was illegally transferred from the Trust's bank account.
The aim is to transfer power/control/responsibility to self-governing regional councils.
The person described himself as a financial officer of a South African government and needs a contact person in Switzerland to transfer the sum of 200 million dollars.
to change to a different job, team, place of work, etc., or to make someone do this
After a year he transferred to University College, Dublin.
Some very high-profile British players have transferred to clubs abroad.
He threatened to give up football if his club didn't transfer him.
I'm talking about Michael Ballack, who was transferred to the Chelsea soccer team at the beginning of this season.
when something or someone moves or is moved from one place, position, etc. to another
the transfer of information
Black's transfer to an Italian football club came as a shock to Coventry supporters.
Most of the transfers are controlled by computers.
to change something completely, usually to improve it
Within weeks they had transformed the area into a beautiful garden.
The reorganization will transform the British entertainment industry.
Well these are some ideas that could help transform the cinema with the extra money that is available.
a complete change in the appearance or character of something or someone, especially so that they are improved
Local people have mixed feelings about the planned transformation of their town into a regional capital.
I'd never seen Carlo in smart evening clothes before - it was quite a transformation.
Big shops are also opening and this transformation of the economy is forcing small family businesses and shops to close.
when something changes from one system or method to another, often gradually
The health-care system is in transition at the moment.
There will be an interim government to oversee the transition to democracy.
The transition from this period into a more independent one is challenging and exciting, both for us and our parents.
A transitive verb always has an object.
Transitive verbs, such as 'put', are marked [T].
to change written or spoken words from one language to another
We were asked to translate a list of sentences.
She works for the EU, translating from English into French.
I was ashamed because I needed someone to translate everything that the people said to me.
If an idea or plan translates into an action, it makes it happen.
So how does this theory translate into practical policy?
This translates into more disposable income.
something which has been translated from one language to another, or the process of translating
It's a translation from the original Spanish.
In the second paper they are asked to do a translation.
Much of the beauty of the rhymes is lost in translation.
We did some translations and wrote a few letters.
the process of broadcasting something by radio, television, etc., or something which is broadcast
radio/satellite transmission
Television channels, for example, can make a profit broadcasting the games and this is usually appreciated by the public, provided that the transmission doesn't last the whole day.
the process of passing something from one person or place to another
There is still a risk of transmission of the virus through infected water.
Moreover she teaches philosophy, ... and at the same time she works for the society as a whole and contributes to the transmission of knowledge.
to broadcast something, or to send out or carry signals using radio, television, etc.
Radio 6 transmits on DAB digital.
The information is transmitted electronically to the central computer.
I hope that my explanation is thorough enough for you to be reassured, but if you want to know more about this strike and the problems it has caused, I'd suggest that you see the special programme about it, which will be transmitted on T.V. next Saturday night.
to pass something from one person or place to another
Cholera is transmitted through contaminated water.
Some diseases are transmitted from one generation to the next.
Somehow your panic and fear transmits itself to the horse that you're riding.
I think that all parents are bound to transmit values to their children; they do so by their own life, their behaviour - what they really are - more than by what they say.
If a substance or object is transparent, you can see through it very clearly.
Grow the bulbs in a transparent plastic box, so the children can see the roots developing.
We loved it there, because the sky was a clear blue and the sea was transparent.
an operation in which a new organ is put into someone's body
a heart/kidney transplant
I was to do a bone-marrow transplant.
a vehicle or system of vehicles, such as buses, trains, aircraft, etc. for getting from one place to another
investment in public transport
Do you have your own transport?
Bicycles are a cheap and efficient form of transport.
We'll stay in a hostel because it's cheap and we'll use public transport.
when people or goods are moved from one place to another
the transport of live animals
The company will arrange transport from the airport.
In addition to that, a car is more suitable for the transport of goods.
to move people or goods from one place to another
The goods are packed in boxes and transported overseas.
The pipeline was constructed to transport oil to ports on the coast.
Such heavy items are expensive to transport by plane.
At first we chase them in the forests and then put them in small and narrow boxes to be transported to a zoo.
when people or goods are moved from one place to another
transportation costs
There are also a lot of improvements in transportation.
a piece of equipment for catching animals
a mouse trap
The fox got its foot caught in a trap.
Angel's horse hurt its leg in a trap for foxes.
a dangerous or unpleasant situation which is difficult to escape from
The undercover agents went to the house knowing that it might be a trap.
She's too clever to fall into the trap of doing any unpaid work.
With this trap Miss Marple reveals Dr. Quimper's real motive and has him arrested by the police.
If someone or something is trapped, they are unable to move or escape from a place or situation.
The two men died when they were trapped in a burning building.
Fire officers used cutting equipment to free his legs, which were trapped under a steel beam.
We had been trapped in the snowy, almost vertical slopes of the "Mont-Blanc de Cheilou" for more than ten hours by then.
something that is of low quality
I can't believe that someone of his intelligence can read such trash!
There's only trash on the television tonight.
But this trend is changing due to the high competition between the various channels, with the bad consequence that more and more programmes are real trash.
severe shock caused by an unpleasant experience, or the experience which causes this feeling
the trauma of marriage breakdown
A child who has never experienced security in his family will certainly become an insecure adult, and from a psychological point of view, many of the adults' problems and inhibitions go back to some negative experience or even trauma in infancy and childhood.
If an experience is traumatic, it makes you feel very shocked and upset.
His parents split up when he was eight, which he found very traumatic.
Secondly, I have an innate fear of things moving simultaneously at a fast pace, probably enhanced by the traumatic childhood experience.
to make a journey
After leaving school, she spent a year travelling, mostly in Africa and Asia.
I travel to work by train.
He travelled over 100 miles to be at the wedding.
As a young man he had travelled the world.
She likes travelling and meeting people from other countries.
to move or go from one place to another
Supersonic planes can travel faster than the speed of sound.
News of the accident travelled fast.
In the film, there were a lot of space-shuttles that travelled around stars and planets.
the activity of travelling
air/space travel
business travel
We share a love of literature, food and travel.
I heard on the travel news that there'd been an accident.
In the travel industry they are looking for Advanced English.
someone's journey
I meet all kinds of interesting people on my travels.
In these travels I learnt a lot because we had to deal with very different people.
someone whose job is making travel arrangements for people
She worked for many years as a travel agent.
I am living with a family in London which the travel agent recommended to me.
someone who travels
This hotel is for serious travellers, rather than tourists on two-week package holidays.
Singapore - 'The Island of Paradise' - is a place travellers from all around the world would not want to miss.
a flat object, usually with raised edges, used for carrying food and drinks
She was carrying a tray of drinks.
Our table had to be cleaned up, so I took a couple of trays, crossed the room and put the trays onto a shelf.
to put your foot on something or to press something down with your foot
I kept treading on his toes when we were dancing.
Yuck! Look what I've just trodden in!
A load of food had been trodden into the carpet.
When my neighbour Victor popped into my flat he saw the toy, a Crimson "Jaguar" produced by Corgitoys, and was impressed as well as I was, so we started playing and then I can vaguely remember what happened but the next thing was that "Jaguar" smashed to smithereens as if someone had trodden on it.
very valuable things, usually in the form of a store of precious metals, precious stones or money
Stories about pirates often include a search for buried treasure.
When they opened up the tomb they found treasure beyond their wildest dreams.
It was said that King Arthur had hidden his treasure in a cave near his castle and he was the only one who knew where it was located.
a very valuable object
art treasures
For all these reasons I believe that certain objects become valuable treasures to us.
If you treasure something, it is very important to you and gives you a lot of pleasure.
I shall treasure those memories of her.
Restlessness and creativity, physical and spiritual health, falling in love and receiving love can offer such moments, which a person could treasure for the rest of his or her life.
to behave towards or deal with someone in a particular way
My parents treated us all the same when we were kids.
He treated his wife very badly.
They treat her like one of their own children.
She felt she'd been unfairly treated by her employer.
I'll treat them like my own son and daughter.
to give medical care to someone for an illness or injury
He is being treated for a rare skin disease.
Western medicine tends to treat the symptoms and not the cause.
I have also worked for the "Red Cross" so I know how to treat injuries, if someone gets hurt.
to consider something in a particular way
He treated my suggestion as a joke.
It was a horrible experience, believe me, but now we treat it as an adventure.
to do or buy something special for someone
I'm going to treat them to dinner at that new restaurant.
There is one nice pub, of course I'll treat you!
something special which you buy or do for someone else or for yourself
a birthday treat
As a special treat I'm taking him out for dinner.
Annie, put your money away, this is my treat.
An orange or a banana was a wonderful treat.
the use of drugs, exercises, etc. to cure a person of an illness or injury
free dental treatment
Perhaps it's time to try a new course of treatment.
This disease doesn't generally respond to treatment.
There are various treatments for this complaint.
For instance, if I had a child who needed special medical treatment and I was rich then it would make me very happy to be able to pay for an expensive operation and to see my child growing up.
the way you deal with or behave towards someone or something
There have been complaints about the treatment of prisoners.
Peter gets special treatment because he knows the boss.
My pet doesn't need special treatment. All it needs is care and love.
a written agreement between two or more countries
a peace treaty
the treaty on European union
We've signed a treaty with neighbouring states to limit emissions of harmful gases.
When it is defeated, an extremely hard, humiliating treaty (the treaty of Versailles) leads to begetting the Nazi Monster, who humiliates a "new" scapegoat: the Jews.
a tall plant with a thick stem which has branches coming from it and leaves
an apple tree
We sat under a tree for shade.
When I see a tree or flower and happy people, I have a good feeling.
a long, difficult journey that you make by walking
They started out on the long trek across the mountains.
SPECIAL ACTIVITIES include a trek through a dense forest and then climbing a hill which is a unique experience for everyone. For the bolder there is something more extreme.
when you go on a long, difficult journey on foot
We want to go trekking in the Himalayas.
I hear she's going to Africa for some trekking.
to shake slightly, usually because you are cold, frightened, or very emotional
When he came out of the water, he was trembling with cold.
Her bottom lip trembled and tears welled up in her eyes.
His voice started to tremble and I thought he was going to cry.
It was Tuesday the 13th and the fact that I was very superstitious made me tremble with fear.
extremely good
I think she's doing a tremendous job.
He's been a tremendous help.
I think it would be a tremendous idea to work with you.
very large, great, strong, etc.
a tremendous amount of money
I think I certainly could live without watching television for a week, but it would put a tremendous strain on my everyday life.
very or very much
They've worked tremendously hard.
We all enjoyed ourselves tremendously.
I enjoyed it tremendously.
a general development or change in a situation or in the way that people are behaving
I'm not familiar with the latest trends in teaching methodology.
The trend at the moment is towards a more natural and less made-up look.
Surveys show a trend away from home-ownership and towards rented accommodation.
There's been a downward/upward trend in sales in the last few years.
So the most important thing about shopping is that you can talk about the latest news with your friend and look for the newest trends.
a legal process to decide if someone is guilty of a crime
The two men are now on trial for attempted murder.
He will be taken to the US to stand trial.
Trial by jury is a fundamental right.
It was a very complicated trial that went on for months.
the trial proceedings
The trial was long and had wide coverage in the media.
a test of something new to find out if it is safe, works correctly, etc.
They're doing clinical trials on a new drug.
They've employed her for a six-month trial period.
At the moment we have a special offer which is a free three-month trial period, so you can have an idea of how the Club works.
a way of learning the best way to do something by trying different methods
There aren't any instructions with it - it's just a matter of trial and error.
If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
If someone stands trial, they appear in a law court where people decide if they are guilty of a crime.
to stand trial for murder
He was going there in order to arrest Christians and bring them to Jerusalem to stand trial for their treason.
a flat shape with three straight sides
an equilateral triangle
There's a small triangle of land to one side of the house.
On the right, two cherry trees and an apple tree are placed in the shape of a triangle.
relating to a tribe
tribal dress/leaders
The fierce tribal loyalty among soccer supporters leads to violence between opposing fans.
It magnificently establishes a parallel between the tragic demise of an outstanding Ibo man named Okonkwo and the cultural as well as religious downfall of his entire clan and generally the disintegration of African tribal life.
a group of people who live together, usually in areas far away from cities, and who share the same culture and language and still have a traditional way of life
a tribe of Amazonian Indians
the Masai tribe
Then I went South to Mali and visited the Dagan tribe whose mythology and rituals interest me a great deal.
something which you do or say to show that you respect and admire someone, especially in a formal situation
Tributes have been pouring in from all over the world for Michael Jackson, who died yesterday.
For wedding bouquets, floral tributes and all your flower needs, call Mandy's Florists.
The only thing she insisted on, over the telephone, was that Newton's "Amazing Grace" should be sung as her last personal tribute to her mother.
to thank someone or say that you admire someone or something, especially in public
He paid tribute to his former teacher.
Although it may not seem so, this is just a way of paying tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, since he always encouraged people to return to their traditions and customs.
something you do to deceive or cheat someone, or to make someone look stupid as a joke
She played a really nasty trick on me - she put syrup in my shampoo bottle!
It's a bit of trick photography - she's meant to look like she's walking on water.
At my first lesson, Jim decided to play a trick on us!
something that is done to entertain people and that seems to be magic
a card trick
My niece likes to do magic tricks for us.
She did some magic tricks.
an effective or quick way of doing something
What's the trick to getting this chair to fold up?
On page 21, twenty tricks to speed up your beauty routine.
I like all kinds of sports: swimming, volleyball, football, bowling, golf, and so on. I hope that by joining your club I will learn all the rules and tricks of these sports.
If something does the trick, it solves a problem or has the result you want.
If I've got a headache, a couple of aspirins usually do the trick.
Using aromatherapy oil and scented candles always did the trick when she wanted to relax.
to deceive someone
They tricked him into signing the papers.
After they explained everything to him, he then knew he was being tricked by them.
difficult to deal with or do
Those bird models are quite tricky to make, aren't they?
I'm in a tricky situation really - whatever I do I'll offend someone.
I think Chris is more sensitive than you and she has taken into account how tricky that route could turn out to be.
to make something begin to happen
Some people find that certain foods trigger their headaches.
The racial killings at the weekend have triggered off a wave of protests.
Motivation is triggered and influenced by many factors.
a series of three books, plays, films, etc. with the same characters or subject
This is the first in his trilogy about India.
The Terminator trilogy might be one of the most obvious examples, where machines evolve beyond our control and nearly exterminate all human beings.
a group of three things or people, especially three musicians who play together
Many jazz trios consist of a piano, guitar and double bass.
There was disappointment for our trio of 200 metre runners, all of whom failed to reach the final.
The rest of the evening saw a few other music students showing off their potential and it ended with an unplugged title sung by a trio composed of female singers.
a journey in which you visit a place for a short time and come back again
The trip from York to Newcastle takes about an hour by train.
Do you want to go on the school trip to France this year?
We did a day trip to Paris.
I thought we might hire a motorboat and take a trip round/around the bay.
She's away on a business trip and won't be back until next week.
So have a nice time on your trip.
to fall or almost fall because you hit your foot on something when you are walking or running
Careful you don't trip over the cat!
He tripped on a stone and hurt his ankle.
We got in the house and it was so dark in there that I couldn't see anything. Then I tripped over a box, I believe.
an important success, achievement, or victory
Barcelona's 3-1 triumph over Manchester United
The book celebrates the hostages' remarkable triumph over appalling adversity.
The signing of the agreement was a personal triumph for the Prime Minister.
It was the Republican Party's third election triumph in a row.
The eradication of smallpox by vaccination was one of medicine's greatest triumphs.
In addition to this the dinner we had on Monday afternoon was a triumph.
the feeling of happiness that you have when you win something or succeed
They couldn't conceal their triumph at the result.
He said to himself "'Yes, it was me, it was because of me' and a spurt of triumph went through him".
small and not important
It's a fairly trivial offence.
It may seem trivial to you but it matters to me.
Sexual harassment in the workplace is not a trivial matter.
All this may seem trivial and unimportant to an ordinary man addicted to his TV set.
a metal object with two or four wheels that you push or pull to transport large or heavy objects on
a shopping/supermarket trolley
The hospital is so overcrowded that some patients are being treated on trolleys in the corridors.
Sometimes customers' trolleys run into each other and they have to wait ages to go through check-out.
soldiers on duty in a large group
The major powers have said they will not send in ground troops.
All troops will be withdrawn by the end of the year.
They died almost at the end of the war, when the Russian troops were already in Berlin.
a prize, such as a silver cup, that you get for winning a race or competition
He's an excellent snooker player, but he's never won a major trophy.
The Duchess of Kent will be presenting the trophies.
How about organising some competitions with prizes, like a trophy??
from or in the hottest parts of the world
a tropical island/region/climate
a tropical storm
She specialises in tropical medicine.
The Amazon river basin contains the world's largest tropical rainforest.
There were special tropical flowers from Brazil and East Asia.
problems, difficulties, or worries
Parents often have trouble finding restaurants that welcome young children.
The form was terribly complicated and I had a lot of trouble with it.
The trouble started when my father came to live with us.
I should get it finished over the weekend without too much trouble.
I'd like to go to the party, but the trouble is my parents won't let me.
I've decided to take this class because I felt I had some trouble spelling words.
when you have done something wrong and are likely to be punished
Her children are always in trouble.
They got into trouble with the police.
He's never been in trouble with his teachers before.
She'll be in big trouble if she's late again.
It's a great way of getting kids off the street and keeping them out of trouble.
Telling the truth keeps me out of trouble.
when you use extra time or energy to do something
He took the trouble to write to each of them personally.
"Would you like to have a meal with us?" "Only if it's not too much trouble."
I could give you a lift - it's no trouble.
I hope it's not too much trouble and I swear I will not break anything again.
a difficult, unpleasant or dangerous situation
The company was in serious trouble with massive debts.
He got into financial trouble after his divorce.
The marriage ran into trouble because of her husband's heavy drinking.
She opened her eyes and saw that she was in serious trouble because it was much too late.
used to say what is wrong with someone or something
The trouble with a white floor is that it gets dirty so quickly.
The trouble with John is that he doesn't think before he speaks.
In fact he thought that the trouble with going by bicycle is that you are always late if you live far from school.
a situation in which people are fighting or arguing
The trouble started after a group of drunken football fans started to throw bottles.
Listen, I don't want any trouble in here, so please just finish your drink and leave.
When we arrived, there had been two men eating on the table just next to us, but they had disappeared when the trouble started.
a problem that you have with a machine or part of your body
The plane developed engine trouble shortly after takeoff.
They have a good reputation for building reliable trouble-free cars.
Her knee trouble is expected to keep her out of the game for the rest of the season.
This was clearly demonstrated by the incident a few weeks ago when one aircraft had engine trouble just over our area and barely managed to get to the airport in time for landing.
having problems or difficulties
a troubled expression
The survival package involves selling off the unprofitable parts of the troubled company.
This troubled region has had more than its fair share of wars over the the centuries.
In these troubled times, it makes a change to hear some good news.
But you realize how much you can cope with if only you help each other and stick together in troubled times.
causing a lot of problems, especially over a long period of time
a troublesome knee injury
This is normal for people who tend to work abroad - they are aware of the dangers and they can protect themselves from troublesome situations.
a piece of clothing that covers the legs and has a separate part for each leg
I need a new pair of trousers to go with this jacket.
I will wear a long shirt and trousers.
a large road vehicle for carrying goods from place to place
The road was completely blocked by an overturned truck.
a truck driver
My bedroom has drawings of trucks and motorbikes.
to walk slowly with heavy steps, especially because you are tired
We trudged back up the hill.
We've been trudging through that snow for ages and I can't see an end coming!
based on facts and not imagined
The film is based on a true story.
Is it true that Lucy and Mark are getting married?
Her story is only partly true.
Parents of young children often become depressed, and this is especially true of single parents.
Look at the sentences and decide whether they are true or false according to the text.
It's true. I finally bought a mobile phone.
real
true love
a true friend
The true horror of the accident did not become clear until the morning.
The film we saw was so nice. It was about true friends.
If a dream or hope comes true, it really happens.
I'd always dreamt of owning my own house, but I never thought it would come true.
After all the problems I'd had, Oliver's birth was a dream come true.
I had been dreaming of going to London since I started learning English, and now that my dream had come true, I was overwhelmed by joy and feeling very lucky.
sincere or loyal, and likely to continue to be so even in a difficult situation
There are few true believers in communism left in the party.
She has vowed to remain true to the president whatever happens.
There are those who remain true to every sport's true goals, the pursuit of excellence in whatever sports one competes in.
used to end a letter
I look forward to hearing from you. Yours truly, Taylor Champinski.
Dear Clyde, . . . I hope my advice helps you with your decision. Yours truly, VERY
used to emphasize a description of something
This is a truly remarkable achievement.
It was a truly terrifying experience.
Those concerts are truly eye-opening.
used to emphasize that something is sincere or honest
Truly I could not have done this without you.
He truly believes he can cure himself by willpower alone.
It would probably take years to achieve it but in the long run I truly believe it would work, as long as everyone is willing to make an effort.
a metal musical instrument that you play by blowing into it and pressing buttons to make different notes
Liz used to play the trumpet.
I play the guitar and John plays the trumpet.
the thick stem of a tree that the branches grow from
The trunks of these trees can be more than two metres wide.
Paula found a small hole in the trunk, just near Laura's feet.
to believe that someone is good and honest and will not harm you, or that something is safe and reliable
My sister warned me not to trust him.
Trust me - I know about these things.
I trust her to make the right decision.
That man is not to be trusted.
I wouldn't trust him with my car.
Do not trust him and be careful.
used to say that you hope something is true
I trust that you had an enjoyable stay.
I trust that the suggestions outlined in this report will receive your serious consideration and meet with your approval.
the belief that you can trust someone or something
a relationship based on trust and understanding
We were obviously wrong to put our trust in her.
He's in a position of trust.
Now the trial is starting and, as a result, I have lost trust in my friends.
Someone who is trustworthy can be trusted.
Bob assured me she was completely trustworthy.
In addition to aforementioned character traits, John could be best described as a conscientious, imaginative, creative, sensible and trustworthy man.
the real facts about a situation, event or person
But was he telling the truth?
I don't suppose we'll ever know the truth about what happened that day.
To tell (you) the truth I'm quite pleased he's not coming.
To tell the truth, I don't enjoy shopping for clothes.
the quality of being true
There may be some truth in what she says.
There is no truth in the reports of his resignation.
And yet what he says contains at least a grain of truth.
My humble opinion is that this statement is absolute, even though there is a great deal of truth behind it.
a fact or idea that people accept is true
moral/religious truths
It was about those universal truths that one seeks all one's life and perhaps dies without truly understanding how happy one was.
to attempt to do something
I tried to open the window but I couldn't.
Keep trying and you'll find a job eventually.
Try not to upset her.
If I don't get into the football academy this year, I'll try again next year.
I've tried really hard but I can't persuade him to come.
I'm trying my best/hardest, but I just can't do it.
I don't have so much time but I will try to come to a meeting for a few hours.
to do, test, taste, etc. something to discover if it works or if you like it
I tried that recipe you gave me last night.
He tried the door, but the handle was broken.
Why don't you try using a different shampoo?
You should try Hungarian food.
to examine facts in a court of law to decide if someone is guilty of a crime
He was tried for attempted murder.
I switched on the TV: unemployment had risen again and a politician was being tried for corruption. I switched it off.
an attempt to do something
They might just have a place left on the course - why don't you give it a try?
Give it here - I'll have a try.
You could ask him if he's willing - it's worth a try.
This will be her third try at jumping the bar.
I can assure that you will like it, so give it a try.
a piece of cotton clothing for the top part of the body with short sleeves and no collar
She was wearing jeans and a T-shirt.
I am looking for a new T-shirt, jeans, a dress, and shoes.
a long, thin container for a soft substance, that you press to get the substance out
a tube of toothpaste
And, of course, she got a set of excellent tools and I won only one thing: a tube of modelling glue.
the system of underground trains in London
I got the tube to Russell Square.
The cinema we are going to is near Marble Arch Tube Station.
a pipe made of glass, plastic, metal, etc., especially for liquids or gases to flow through
Gases produced in the reaction pass through this tube and can then be collected.
I threw the tube into the river.
the day of the week after Monday and before Wednesday
We'll meet at eight on Tuesday.
We meet every Tuesday.
Tuesday afternoon
The twenty-ninth is a Tuesday, isn't it?
On Tuesday, Thursday and Friday I have French and physics.
the teaching of one person or of a small group of people
French tuition
The high level of the tuition received from a professional trainer definitely pays off.
a large sea fish, or the meat from this fish
I had a tuna sandwich for lunch.
I'll make tuna with tomatoes, it's delicious.
a song or piece of music
I downloaded some great tunes yesterday.
a theme tune
Also, it has got many beautiful tunes and exciting games.
a series of musical notes that are pleasant to listen to
That's a very catchy tune.
He was humming a tune as he dried the dishes.
The music to the 2nd video is more light-hearted, and it has a catchy tune that makes you want to tap your foot to its rhythm.
singing or playing the wrong notes
The piano is out of tune.
Even if you sing out of tune please call us.
singing or playing the right notes
Try to stay in tune.
The public was singing in tune with Jag, hands were raised and bodies were slowly swaying.
to understand what someone wants or needs or to understand a situation and act in a way that is suitable for it
The government is not in tune with the voters.
I am not exactly in tune with all the latest trends but I know which styles give me the most satisfaction.
a long passage under the ground or through a mountain
The train went into the tunnel.
Unfortunately, the tunnel was closed so I just had to continue walking on the pathway.
A turbulent situation, time, etc. is one in which there are a lot of sudden changes, arguments, or violence.
a turbulent relationship
We live in a turbulent time and people do not always have enough peace in their minds to question things.
a bird that looks like a large chicken, or the meat of this bird
We had turkey for dinner.
I asked for a turkey pie but they gave me a beef pie, so they changed it for me.
a situation in which there is a lot of trouble, confusion, or noise
The whole region is in turmoil.
Therefore, she finds herself in a state of confusion, as her feelings are in turmoil.
to change the direction in which you are moving, or to make a car do this
Turn left at the traffic lights.
I turned the car into the drive.
Go up the street and turn left on the square.
to move your body so that you are facing a different direction
Ricky turned and saw Sue standing in the doorway.
She put out the light, turned over and went to sleep.
I turned around and looked into the eyes of my favourite football player Timo Hildebrand.
to move something round so that it faces a different direction
Ella turned the cup to hide the crack in it.
I turned it over in my hands and looked at it quite carefully.
to move a page in a book or magazine in order to see the next one
Now turn the page, please, and start Exercise 2.
He turned over two or three pages.
Now turn to page 23 and look at the first paragraph.
Television helps a lot to make our life easier. But, where is the poetry of handling a book? Yes, there is a lot of poetry, first you handle it, you turn the pages, second you can read any passage, where and when you want.
to move around a central point in a circle, or to make something do this
Turn the steering wheel as quickly as you can.
The Earth turns on its axis once every 24 hours.
The wheels started to turn (round).
She turned the door knob and quietly opened the door.
It's not like sitting on a bike and just turning the pedals, in this case you work only your legs.
to become blue, cold, nasty, etc.
The sky turned black and it started to rain.
The weather has suddenly turned cold.
When I refused to pay, he turned nasty.
She turned pale and started to shiver.
His friends began to laugh and my face turned red.
to become a particular age
He turned 18 last May.
One of the best things when you turn 17 in Britain is that you can start to take driving lessons.
to choose to ignore something that you know is wrong or illegal
Restaurant staff often took food home, and their boss turned a blind eye.
Nevertheless, we can't turn a blind eye to this reality.
as a result of something that is part of a series of events
This could result in the loss of certain species of fish and this in turn poses a serious threat to the fishing communities along the river banks.
This, in turn, enabled them to find jobs and become financially independent from their husbands.
to decide to stop having contact with someone or something, or to refuse to help someone
She turned her back on Hollywood and went to live in Florida.
She gets to learn that Olivia turned her back on her past and merged totally with India through her attraction to and sympathy for the Nawab.
to not accept something because you do not think it is good enough for you
He turned his nose up at my offer of soup, saying he wanted a proper meal.
Moreover, she will not turn her nose up at anybody who might be considered less worthy than her.
to start to behave in a better way
I'm not drinking any more - I've turned over a new leaf.
She promised to turn over a new leaf.
be unable to sleep properly
I was tossing and turning for most of the night.
As she tossed and turned, unable to sleep, she started going over the events that had taken place before that evening.
the time when you can or must do something, usually before or after someone else
Is it my turn yet?
It's your turn to do the washing up!
In this game if you give the wrong answer you have to miss a turn.
I really enjoyed the holidays in England with you, so now it's my turn to invite you to come to my country, Peru.
When a number of people take turns, they do the same thing one after the other.
We take turns to answer the phone.
They all took turns carrying the suitcase.
I suggest that each family takes turns to cut the grass once a week.
a change in the direction in which you are moving or facing
a left/right turn
We got as far as the school, and there we had to make a right turn.
one after the other
Each of us collects the mail in turn.
He spoke to the three boys in turn.
We had two different teachers in the mornings and in the afternoons in turn.
as a result of something
He took out more loans, which, in turn, led to more debt.
People will study for a range of degrees, which may imply that a lot of new jobs, mainly related to computers, will gain importance, which, in turn, could result in a better organization of the jobs and, as a consequence, a reduction in the unemployment rate.
to become better or worse suddenly
The weather took a turn for the better.
Despite all the environmental problems it is up to us to prevent things from taking a turn for the worse.
the start of a new century
He was born at the turn of the century.
the way in which a situation develops, especially a sudden or unexpected change
We were all shocked by this tragic turn of events.
She was not prepared for such an unexpected turn of events!
a corner where one road meets another
Take the first turning on the left.
Then, take the second turning on the left and go along that road until you get to the roundabout.
the amount of business that a company does in a period of time
Large supermarkets have a high turnover of inventory.
For instance, clothes shops in Barcelona expect a big turnover in August because of the amount of tourists that will visit the city.
the rate at which workers leave an organization and new workers join it
The high turnover among daycare workers is an ongoing problem.
What used to amaze me was the very low staff turnover and I wondered what the secret was.
someone who teaches one person or a very small group of people
a private tutor
We could afford trips abroad, modern labour-saving devices and private tutors.
television
What's on TV tonight?
You watch too much TV!
We ate in front of the TV.
TV personalities
She watches TV every evening.
the number 12
ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen
a twelve-seater minibus
We can start at twelve o'clock.
the number 20
nineteen, twenty, twenty-one
space for twenty people
I think we were twenty people.
to be aged between 20 and 29
Most of the staff are in their twenties.
Teenagers and people in their twenties will enjoy themselves in the atmosphere of the rock-café.
the years from 1920-1929
I love the fashions of the twenties.
You can find the car that won the first car race in the world, and lost movies from the twenties.
two times
I've already asked him twice.
You need to take two tablets twice daily.
There are twice as many houses in this area as there used to be.
The state is at least twice as big as England.
He's twice her size.
I can write twice a week.
to carefully consider whether what you are planning is a good idea
I'd think twice about spending so much money on one thing, if I were you.
Now I will think twice before I buy your paper again.
to do something immediately, without considering whether it is a good idea
When he asked me out, I didn't think twice!
Your advertisement seemed very convincing and as I intended to travel to exotic locations I did not think twice.
one of two children who are born to the same mother at the same time
My sister has twin sons.
a twin sister
I have twin cousins there and I love them very much.
If you twist a part of your body, such as your knee, you injure it by turning it suddenly.
I tripped and twisted my ankle.
The worst part is, that we had an older lady within our group who had twisted her ankle so she was somewhat disabled at the time.
to turn something in a circle using your hand
She sat there nervously twisting the ring around on her finger.
to turn part of your body to face a different direction
She twisted her head so she could see what was happening.
Through the right wing of the car I could see his eyes glitter like two flawless diamonds as he twisted his neck slightly from time to time to beam at me.
to change the meaning of something so that it fits what you want it to mean
You keep twisting my words - that's not what I meant at all!
Some members of the board twisted her words.
an unexpected change in a situation or in a story
His arrest was just the latest twist in the story of his life.
The plot takes several twists and turns till the conclusion which sums up the contents of the film.
bent so that the original shape is changed or destroyed
a twisted tree trunk
a twisted ankle
twisted metal
When I got there, a very nice nurse told me that I've got a twisted ankle and I cannot walk for one week!
strange and slightly unpleasant or cruel
He'd become bitter and twisted.
Sometimes her morality seems a little twisted.
the number 2
They've got two houses.
I spent two years in Ethiopia.
It's two o'clock.
He'll be two (years old) in February.
I go to college two days per week.
used to talk about a small number of something
I may bring a friend or two.
I also refused to eat any meal a day or two before the test but my mother made me, she said I needed the energy to be happy and celebrate afterwards.
to have difficulty making a decision
I'm in two minds about accepting his offer.
If you are in two minds about having to share your room with someone else, there you can easily rent a studio apartment close to the college, which is situated in the centre of the city.
a person or thing that is part of a group of people or things that have similar qualities, or a group of people or things that have similar qualities
What type of house do they live in?
They sell over 50 different types of cheese.
Illnesses of this type are very common in children.
They sell dried flowers and baskets and that type of thing.
My favourite type of music is RAP.
someone who has particular qualities or interests
He's the outdoor type.
Usually these adults are the hardworking type and save money for the future.
to not be the type of person that someone thinks is attractive
I like Bertrand but he's not really my type.
It's true that he wasn't handsome, not at all the type she had used to prefer, but when he smiled, that wonderful smile that made his eyes sparkle, she realised, quite dazzled, that he was beautiful.
to write something using a keyboard
She asked me to type a couple of letters.
He can type very quickly.
I was typing away into the early hours of the morning just to get the thing finished.
I'm typing this email to ask your permission to borrow your bicycle.
having all the qualities you expect a particular person, object, place, etc. to have
I must look like the typical tourist with my shorts and my camera.
This sort of hot and spicy food is very typical of the food in the south of the country.
Typical symptoms would include severe headaches, vomiting and dizziness.
This film is a typical horror film.
used for saying what usually happens
Typically, a doctor will see about thirty patients a day.
Tickets for such events will typically cost around thirty dollars.
The climate of Brazil is typically tropical so the weather is gorgeous.
in a way that shows all the characteristics that you would expect from the stated person, thing or group
She has that reserve and slight coldness of manner which is typically English.
Paul, in typically rude fashion, told him he was talking rubbish.
Your wife really made an effort to cook me typically English dishes.
a thick, round piece of rubber filled with air, that fits around a wheel
I've got a flat tyre.
I keep a spare tyre in the back of the car.
We went by car and the trip was lots of fun - the only thing that went wrong was we had two flat tyres.
unpleasant to look at
an ugly building/city
There are lots of trees and bushes, and lots of fresh air, but the city itself is quite ugly.
An ugly situation is very unpleasant, usually because it involves violence.
There were ugly scenes outside the stadium.
Just think about the ugly situation of being in a fully-booked hotel and then the staff goes on strike.
better, greater or worse than all similar things
Climbing Mount Everest is the ultimate challenge.
the ultimate luxury cruise
For me, rats are the ultimate horror.
Being on the road is always better than the arrival, so this journey would be the ultimate journey for me as well.
final or most important
the ultimate aim/solution
The ultimate aim when I joined your tour was to meet one of my friends in St Andrews.
finally, after a series of things have happened
Everything will ultimately depend on what is said at the meeting with the directors next week.
Ultimately, of course, he'd like to have his own business but that won't be for some time.
Ultimately, it leads to a lot of diseases and early death.
used to emphasize the most important fact in a situation
Ultimately, he'll have to decide.
Ultimately, that is why we are influenced by other people's personalities.
a thing that you hold above your head to keep yourself dry when it is raining
I felt a few spots of rain so I put my umbrella up.
I left my umbrella on the bus yesterday.
I got some books, a bottle of wine and an umbrella.
to not be able to do something
We were unable to contact him at the time.
I was just shocked, and unable to speak at all, or to breathe.
too bad to be allowed to continue
The water contains unacceptable levels of pollution.
I find that sort of behaviour completely unacceptable.
The unions have described the latest pay offer as unacceptable.
So I waited for 45 minutes until the show started. That is an unacceptable delay.
not changed by something
Smaller colleges will be unaffected by the new regulations.
Only a genius could stay unaffected by such idolatry.
too expensive for people to be able to buy
Such clothes are unaffordable for most people.
£5 per session is obviously unaffordable for students.
agreed by everyone
The jury was unanimous in finding him guilty.
Having spoken to neighbours, we reached a unanimous decision that the route of the aircraft should be changed immediately so that they no longer disrupt our lives.
with agreement from everyone
We agreed unanimously that he was the best candidate.
While it is true that there are quite a few opposing theories about losing weight, doctors unanimously agree that a hedonistic approach to eating can lead to unpleasant health issues like obesity.
not able to be achieved
an unattainable ideal
Some economists think that full employment in Europe is an unattainable goal.
The ability to permanently record thought opened new dimensions to fields like philosophy, poetry and literature, enabling them to reach a degree of complexity, creativity and longevity unattainable by previous technologies.
not beautiful or nice to look at
I felt old and unattractive.
Their new building is very unattractive.
This information is useful for a person who thinks his/her body is unattractive.
not interesting or useful
an unattractive proposition
In our opinion, despite the friendly atmosphere of our club's meetings we find them very unattractive and rather "dull".
impossible to buy or get
The book is unavailable in Britain.
The third point was that the discounted tickets were unavailable.
not able to talk to someone or meet them, especially because you are doing other things
The manager was unavailable for comment.
Furthermore, a role-model for the younger generation could be the famous tennis player Joe Hill, who unfortunately is unavailable to give an interview.
impossible to avoid or prevent
an unavoidable delay
Being aware of the two proposals our local government is considering in order to solve the apparently unavoidable matter of traffic in our beloved city, I feel compelled to offer my views on such a delicate subject.
in a way that could not be avoided or prevented
She was unavoidably delayed.
Even if you go abroad on your own, you unavoidably meet people from your country or speaking your native language.
not knowing about something
He was unaware that the police were watching him.
I was quite unaware of the problem.
Although you may be an expert in one subject you can be unaware of some basics in others.
slightly mentally ill
After his death, she became slightly unbalanced.
Many homeless people are mentally unbalanced, some are addicted to chemical substances.
false and not fair
He gave an unbalanced view of the situation.
I think that if a school measures a child solely by his or her academic success, it will be an unbalanced and narrow-minded method to measure a child and his or her ability as a whole person.
too painful or unpleasant for you to continue to experience
The heat was almost unbearable.
Life can be very difficult, almost unbearable sometimes.
extremely bad or good and making you feel surprised
It's unbelievable how lucky she's been.
You've had such bad luck - it's unbelievable.
The food is unbelievable and I'm sure you'll love it.
not probable and difficult to believe
I found most of the characters in the play totally unbelievable.
They made up unbelievable stories which almost made them cry in the end.
able to judge fairly because you are not influenced by your own opinions
He was able to give me some unbiased advice.
If you take into consideration only certain subjects, you are likely to end up despising other fields of knowledge, whereas the main point of education is to give an unbiased view of our own and foreign cultures.
not sure or not able to decide about something
She's uncertain whether to go to New Zealand or not.
Bridie was uncertain about meeting him.
There are things that I am uncertain about, and that I would be grateful if you could explain.
not known or fixed, or not completely certain
New arrivals face an uncertain future.
The political outlook is still uncertain.
Please do not bother posting them since we do not have a zip code where I live, and they might get lost with our uncertain Post Service.
in a direct and often angry way
I told him to go away in no uncertain terms.
Intellectuals are used to saying in no uncertain terms that money represents the bad side of the sport.
the state of being uncertain
There was a lot of uncertainty about whether or not he would attend the event.
The shortages of almost everything we have to face and cope with have made our lives full of uncertainty and helplessness, but on the other hand they released in some Poles enormous energy, in the effort to support their families and provide them with food, clothing and fuel.
staying the same
The area has remained virtually unchanged in fifty years.
All the big and small things which define people's personal environment will be left nearly unchanged - the furniture, the pictures on the wall.... I suppose our future homes will be a mix of new technologies and good old tradition.
the brother of your mother or father, or the husband of your aunt
I've got an uncle who lives there.
Did you bring me a present, Uncle Jack?
My uncle gave me the best present.
not easy to understand
The situation at the moment is unclear.
It's unclear what actually happened that night.
It's unclear whether he arrived before or after the shot was fired.
If something is unclear please give me a call.
If you are unclear about something, you are not certain about it.
I'm unclear about a couple of points in your proposal - could you go over them again?
not feeling comfortable and pleasant, or not making you feel comfortable and pleasant
I've eaten so much, I'm really quite uncomfortable.
These shoes are really uncomfortable.
The things I most hate wearing are shirts, I think they're very uncomfortable.
slightly embarrassed, or making you feel slightly embarrassed
an uncomfortable silence
It is interesting how people get embarrassed and uncomfortable when they have to face an English speech.
in a way that is not comfortable or pleasant
I was warm but not uncomfortably so.
I saw faces I see every day, but in uncomfortably long dresses and with starched white collars, I saw their effort to look nice, attractive and not to disturb the rules set by the society of their time.
unusual
It's not uncommon for people to become ill when they travel.
NEW TRENDS: Vegetarian food is not uncommon nowadays.
done or given without any limits and without asking for anything for yourself
unconditional love
But I am of the firm conviction that you cannot love a child too much, and this unconditional love does not include any rod, in both the literal and figurative sense of the word.
in a state as though you are sleeping, for example because you have been hit on the head
She was hit on the head by a stone and knocked unconscious.
In the morning, Mrs Crozier went to visit Miss Appleford in number 42 only to find her lying on the floor unconscious.
An unconscious thought or feeling is one that you do not know you have.
an unconscious fear
Maybe it was her strict upbringing that had left her with an unconscious need to rebel, and that in turn caused her to be drawn to this rowdy young man.
If you do something unconsciously, you do it without knowing that you are doing it.
She was nodding her head, unconsciously urging him on.
We do this, for instance, when we buy a larger - and more expensive - car than we need for commuting to work, because we unconsciously want to be like the actors that drive them in films.
doing things in a way that is different from most people
an unconventional lifestyle
CHILDREN'S STORIES This event was successful and satisfied the kids since the heroes were exhilarating, with amazingly unconventional behaviour.
a noun which does not have a plural form and cannot be used with 'a' or 'one'
'Information' and 'furniture' are uncountable nouns.
to discover something that had been secret or hidden
The inspectors uncovered evidence of corruption.
Sitting in a restaurant and discussing provisions of the contract you will find much easier and feel happier than just sitting and looking at an enormous number of clauses, trying unsuccessfuly to uncover what your client really thought when he wrote this or that.
certainly true
an undeniable fact
It is undeniable that he has made a positive contribution to the history of my country.
in a way that is almost certainly true
He is undeniably the best student we have ever had.
Sport has undeniably become part of contemporary popular culture.
below something, or below the surface of something
He hid under the bed.
They were standing under a tree.
She was holding a file under her arm.
She pushed her bag under the table.
He could only keep his head under the water for a few seconds.
I like my bedroom, because there is a table under the window, and some pictures on the wall.
less than a number, amount, or age
All items cost/are under a pound.
You can buy the whole set of DVDs for just under £30.
The discount applies only to children under (the age of) ten.
Under-5s get in free.
If you get under 50%, you've failed the exam.
I saw an advertisement in front of my house: the coffee bar is looking for some waiters aged under 23 years old.
in a particular state or condition
The President is under pressure to resign.
Under no circumstances should the festival become too specialized.
I am used to working under pressure.
being affected by something at the present time
The town is once again under attack.
The cause of the fire is still under investigation.
A new 16-screen cinema is under construction.
Several different plans are under discussion.
We are working hard to get the situation under control.
Everything was under control, the remote detonator had worked perfectly well.
to think or understand a particular stated thing
I was under the impression (that) you didn't get on too well.
He was under the mistaken impression (that) you were married.
I am under the impression that people generally exercise a little, but if they eat the wrong food every day, it won't help.
If you say something under your breath, you say it very quietly so that other people cannot hear it.
He was muttering curses under his breath.
"We must have taken a wrong turn somewhere..." he kept muttering under his breath.
Australia, or in Australia
She was born in Scotland, but she's been living down under for 22 years.
Last year a good friend of mine and I went to Australia. After a couple of days of doing some sightseeing and sunbathing on beautiful sandy beaches, we decided that we needed to get something more out of our stay down under.
If something bad happens under your nose, it happens close to you but you do not notice it.
They were stealing money from under my nose.
You will be surprised that there was something right under your nose that you could not live without.
to be already happening
Building work is already under way.
Sociologists are well-aware of the fact and experiments are under way to counterbalance these disadvantages.
to feel ill
I'm feeling a bit under the weather this morning.
Ann was a bit under the weather, and she felt quite lonely in her big flat.
not developed enough
They are working in underdeveloped parts of the city.
A shift of focus in underdeveloped and developing states' economic and social policies is vital to overcoming the problems which cause homelessness.
to fail to understand how large, strong, or important something is
Many people underestimate the cost of owning a car.
We shouldn't underestimate the part that exercise plays in good health.
The report also seemed to underestimate the number of people that had attended.
to not understand how powerful or clever someone is
I thought it would be an easy game but I had underestimated my opponent.
At the beginning she will ask you many questions about yourself. But don't underestimate Ms Bates (that's her name).
to experience something, especially a change or medical treatment
The country is currently undergoing major political change.
He is undergoing surgery for a heart problem.
Nowadays, my country is undergoing a very difficult financial and social situation.
the system of trains that is built under London
the London Underground
Take the underground to Green Park.
Take the underground to Camden Town station.
below the surface of the ground
an underground cave/passage
Some animals, such as moles, live underground.
As it was expected, Harry was seen, and then he went underground through a tunnel which crossed from the inner city to the Russian zone.
to draw a line under a word or sentence, especially in order to show its importance
All the technical words have been underlined in red.
And, another disadvantage in my opinion is that is more difficult to underline or to write some notes if you study from the computer.
to emphasize the truth or importance of something
The report underlines the need for more teachers in schools.
It is true that museums do not show the past as well as they could, but we must underline that they are always good enough if we are really interested in knowing about our past.
An underlying reason or problem is the real reason or problem, although it is not obvious.
We need to look at the underlying reasons for ill health.
The underlying reason is of course a lurking threat of death and decay, which keeps scientists investigating new methods to postpone the age of death.
to make someone less confident or make something weaker
A series of scandals have undermined people's confidence in the government.
All this doesn't undermine the importance of charity workers and entertainers in our work for the greater good.
under or below something
The tunnel goes right underneath the city.
They found a bomb underneath the car.
She was dressed like a princess, after spending the whole day looking for an appropriate dress, which she finally managed to find underneath her bed.
under or below
Florian was wearing a dark jacket with a red shirt underneath.
The rock was about 70m high and there was water underneath.
not earning enough for your work
Her staff felt they were underpaid.
They claim that they are overworked and underpaid (it's the usual reason for striking, isn't it?)
a piece of underwear that covers the area between your waist and the top of your legs
I need some new underpants.
Was that woman me, standing there in those ugly-looking underpants, but with a smart sports bra, with everybody laughing around her?
to know the meaning of something that someone says
She explained the whole idea again, but I still didn't understand.
I don't understand half of what he says.
Is there anyone here who understands Arabic?
My teacher helps me when I don't understand.
to know why or how something happens or works, or how to do something
We still don't fully understand how the brain works.
I don't understand why my computer crashes so often.
The teacher explained her plan for teaching and we understood how to plan our time.
to know how someone feels or why they behave in a particular way
I don't understand James sometimes.
I understand why she's so angry.
Maybe now you can understand why I hate shopping. kisses, I/we understand (that)... FORMAL
used to say that you believe something is true because someone has told you it is
I understand that the school is due to close next year.
I understand that the job entails entertaining people.
to say something to someone in a way that they understand
I had a little difficulty making myself understood.
(Find enclosed a paper slip on which I have written a destination, number of tickets, etc., in the German language - use it just in case you can't make yourselves understood.)
An understandable feeling or action is one that you would expect in that particular situation.
"I still feel really angry about it." "That's understandable."
Their refusal to help is perfectly/completely understandable, considering the circumstances.
I guess they wouldn't give me permission to stay at a female friend's home, but that's understandable.
in a way that is expected in a particular situation
She's understandably upset.
Furthermore, the use of the computer system caused long waiting times because everyone wanted - understandably - to find out more about suitable working opportunities.
knowledge about a subject, situation, etc. or about how something works
She doesn't have any understanding of politics.
My understanding of the agreement is that they will pay £50, 000 over two years.
It was my understanding that she would come alone.
It was my understanding that discounts were available on the tickets, as the advertisement showed, but there were no discounts.
sympathy
Thank you for your understanding - I do appreciate it.
Thank you for your understanding.
an informal agreement between two people
We have an understanding that we don't discuss the subject in front of his mother.
showing sympathy for someone's problems
Fortunately, my boss is very understanding.
They are famous, but they need to be alone sometimes. I think the media must be more understanding.
to do or begin to do something, especially something that will take a long time or be difficult
Students are required to undertake simple experiments.
To achieve it the above mentioned steps should be undertaken.
to promise to do something
She undertook to organize the meeting.
a difficult or important piece of work, especially one that takes a long time
Building your own house is a major undertaking.
While such an undertaking is most advisable, I should like to point out that there may be drawbacks.
under the surface of water
an underwater camera
Seals can hear very well underwater.
If you have diving equipment, you will spend a very good time underwater.
If something is underway, it is happening.
Economic recovery is already underway.
The weather was beautiful and the sun shone but as soon as I was underway, the weather turned on us and grew worse with every step.
to begin
The film festival gets underway on 11th July.
the clothes that you wear next to your skin, under your other clothes
They sell a wide range of underwear.
If I see some nice underwear, I will buy it too.
Something that is undesirable is not wanted because it is bad or unpleasant.
an undesirable influence
In this day and age, man is inextricably interwoven with the undesirable environmental damage, and the problems as far as the environment is concerned have generated a great deal of heated debate.
Undeveloped land has no buildings on it and is not used for anything.
The site is still undeveloped.
The Town Council decided to take measures in order to benefit our area, which has remained undeveloped for the last five years.
to open something that is tied or fastened
I took off my hat and undid my coat.
Can you undo this knot for me?
Can someone help me to undo my seat belt?
to make a computer get rid of the last change you made to a document and make it the way it was before
You need to undo that change.
used to emphasize that something is true
The project was an undoubted success.
her undoubted ability/talent
Yet, in spite of the undoubted improvements to life progress has brought about, there are still those who condemn it.
used to emphasize that something is true
Stress has undoubtedly contributed to her illness.
This trip will undoubtedly be a wonderful experience.
to remove your clothes or someone else's clothes
She undressed the children and put them to bed.
The chair is for my clothes when I undress.
not wearing any clothes
I got undressed and went to bed.
We got undressed quicker than ever and ran into the waterfall.
more than is necessary
I don't want to cause undue alarm.
On the other hand a badly organised holiday can put undue stress on the traveller.
worried because you think something bad might happen
I feel a bit uneasy about her travelling alone.
Anyway I was getting uneasy because of all that silence, so I began to sing.
not having a job that provides money
He's been unemployed for over a year.
I have been unemployed for four months.
people who are unemployed
We want to get the unemployed back into work.
I am a lawyer and not so long ago I worked in Poznan Unemployment Office where I happened to use English - not talking to the unemployed of course.
the number of people who are unemployed
a rise/fall in unemployment
Unemployment has fallen/risen again for the third month in a row.
Later, after a discussion about unemployment, we did reading, writing and listening.
morally bad
unethical business methods
Then, if you would like to perform an experiment, you cannot, because that would be unethical.
not level, smooth, or in equal amounts
an uneven floor
At the same time we must solve the financial problems incurred by the uneven age distribution.
without problems and without anything exciting happening
The journey itself was fairly uneventful.
This rather quiet and uneventful life changed when we moved to the city.
not expected
His death was completely unexpected.
Last week I had an unexpected visit from my best friend - Mark.
in a way or at a time that is not expected
Retail sales unexpectedly fell last month.
He called in quite unexpectedly last week.
He called me really unexpectedly at work, and told me to go to his office at once.
not treating people in a equal way
an unfair system
The test was unfair because some people had seen it before.
He always gave me horrible marks and was very unfair.
not true and morally wrong
It's unfair to blame Roger for everything.
Furthermore, it's unfair to say that there is nothing to do in the evenings, because there is lots to do.
in an unfair way
His employers treated him very unfairly.
Your report not only gave wrong information to your readers but also criticized a music festival unfairly.
not known to you
I noticed several unfamiliar faces in the meeting room.
His name was unfamiliar to me.
On the other hand, you may not like some dishes, because they may be unfamiliar to you.
to not have any knowledge or experience of something
A lot of people are unfamiliar with the system.
not fashionable or popular at a particular time
This kind of cooking is very unfashionable now.
I think that museums became a little bit unfashionable as a way of knowing or showing something.
negative and showing that you do not like something
unfavourable publicity
The majority of people react positively and are able to change their previous opinions, if these were very unfavourable.
not good and likely to cause problems
unfavourable weather conditions
Despite these unfavourable conditions I managed to get through the concert without any major problems.
not healthy because you do too little exercise
I really must do some exercise - I'm so unfit.
I was interested in practicing some sport, because I was feeling quite unfit.
not suitable or good enough
The building was declared unfit for human habitation.
Cars also emit carbon monoxide and make the air unfit to breathe.
to become open and flat, or to make something become open and flat
I unfolded the map.
Well, you will be if you saw our slide show and talk - members can hardly forget that relaxing afternoon when we unfolded the sails on the lake and enjoyed the tranquility of the area.
If a situation or story unfolds, it develops or becomes known.
The nation watched on TV as the tragic events unfolded.
The plot unfolds in an exciting way and the film is fraught with lies, surprises and insinuations.
not expected
The concert was cancelled due to unforeseen circumstances.
Finally, owing to unforeseen circumstances, the half-day visit to St Andrews was cancelled and I was told about it only in the late morning, which prevented me from doing what I had planned.
Something that is unforgettable is so good, interesting, etc. that you remember it for a long time.
Seeing Niagara Falls was an unforgettable experience.
I've just arrived home and I'd like to thank you for the unforgettable weekend.
used to show that you wish something was not true or had not happened
an unfortunate mistake
It was so unfortunate that she lost her job just as her husband became ill.
It is unfortunate that he couldn't inform you about the conference.
unlucky
One unfortunate person failed to see the hole and fell straight into it.
He was always an unfortunate person, because bad things happened to him all the time.
used to say that you wish something was not true or had not happened
I'd love to come, but unfortunately, I have to work.
Unfortunately, I didn't have my credit card with me or I'd certainly have bought it.
Unfortunately I lost my keys.
not friendly
I found her rather unfriendly.
My last teacher was very unfriendly.
the state of being unhappy
Her unhappiness was obvious to everyone.
They feel very unhappy living in a zoo, since for them it is like a prison, and their unhappiness can bring about their death.
sad
an unhappy childhood/marriage
He made her quite unhappy.
I was unhappy you couldn't come to my birthday party.
not satisfied
I'm unhappy about the situation.
We were very unhappy with the service at the hotel.
I'm still unhappy about my present accommodation for the following reasons.
likely to become ill or likely to damage your health
He has a very unhealthy lifestyle.
The city is unsafe and unhealthy because of the pollution and the violence.
not wanting to help someone, in a way that seems unfriendly
The taxi driver was rude and unhelpful.
However, The Taverna has no uniform and the waiters there are sometimes pushy and unhelpful.
not improving a situation
an unhelpful remark
Because of the unhelpful and useless solution from this company, called Energy Plus, I am looking for advice.
a special set of clothes that are worn by people who do a particular job or go to a particular school
school uniform
a nurse's uniform
I think I have left the skirt of my school uniform in your house.
Something that is unimaginable is difficult to imagine because it is so bad, good, big, etc.
unimaginable pain/wealth
Later, at the age of 60, after he had suffered from a stroke that was a side effect of the open heart surgery he underwent, he was left speech-impaired, which can be considered an unimaginable handicap for an actor.
not important
Staffing is still a relatively unimportant issue compared to the other problems that we're facing.
Pat told him some unimportant things such as she learnt to swim at the age of five or that she loved ants.
If a place is uninhabited, no one lives there.
an uninhabited island
Me and my best mate, Kelly, had read in an ancient history book we found in our school library about the legendary Golden Caves which are made of gold, found on the tropical uninhabited island of Tropai.
not interested
He's completely uninterested in politics.
He is uninterested in his father's money.
not interesting
His later work is uninteresting in comparison with his first novel.
My neighbours are particularly uninteresting, they bore me stiff!
an organization that represents people who do a particular job
a teachers'/firefighters' union
Otherwise there will be some problems with trade unions.
when two or more countries, groups, etc. join together to make one country, group, etc.
the European Union
Meanwhile, the debate on European political and monetary union continues.
different from everyone and everything else
Everyone's fingerprints are unique.
Every book is unique because every writer is unique, with his own style and his own character.
unusual and special
Do not miss this unique opportunity to buy all six pans at half the recommended price.
First of all, I would like to tell you that I really enjoyed my stay and it was a unique experience for me.
to exist in only one place, or be connected with only one person or thing
It's a method of education that is unique to this school.
I strongly believe that every country needs its local shops with products that are unique to the particular country, not only because it is very good for local development but also because this way the world will stay colourful and interesting.
a single thing or a separate part of something larger
The first year of the course is divided into four units.
Each unit of the course book focuses on a different grammar point.
I'm sorry but I can't come to tomorrow's class because my father had a car crash and I have to take care of him but don't worry I can do the unit of my workbook and do the exercise.
a group of people living or working together, especially for a particular purpose
the traditional family unit
an anti-terrorist unit
Dr Nussbaum is director of the Civil Liberties Research Unit at King's College, London.
Both soldiers spent two weeks in training before being allowed to rejoin their unit.
This is very important because once they have grown up, they have to be together in the family unit with their own kids.
to join together as a group, or to make people join together as a group
We need a leader who can unite the party.
A barbecue would unite all members in a rarely seen way, because we would all be together for a day or an afternoon which would be enough to make some new friends and get to know the other members better.
joined together as a group, organization, etc.
The whole village was united in their grief.
It was the first film festival to take place in a united Germany.
Despite all these advantages, I deeply miss the times when I had almost no technological facilities, but a very happy and united family.
If people are united, they all agree about something.
On the issue of education the party is united.
We have the authority to make changes, that is if we stand united.
when everyone agrees with each other or wants to stay together
national/party unity
family unity
I would conclude by saying that some healthy competition is good, but your main goal has to be to work together as a group and work towards the achievement of goals - as the saying goes, "united we stand, divided we fall" and unity is strength.
relating to everyone in the world, or to everyone in a particular group
a universal truth
Food is a subject of almost universal interest.
The new reforms have not met with universal approval within the government.
Kittens and puppies have an almost universal appeal.
I think the film Yasujino Ozo has something universal in relation to our daily life, a kind of feeling or emotion.
in a way that involves everyone in the world, or everyone in a particular group
She is universally adored.
Water is one of the most common and universally known substances.
Furthermore fame can give people the feeling that they are universally loved.
everything that exists, including all the stars, space, etc.
Is there intelligent life elsewhere in the universe?
I'm the last survivor of a great civilization that is now extinguished. I've been looking for a planet like yours for ages, to transmit the secret of my people. Take this box: this source of energy means strength, it is the most powerful item in the universe!
a place where students study at a high level to get a degree
the University of Cambridge
Which university did you go to?
James is studying chemistry at Bristol University.
a university course/lecturer
My friend is a student at the university in my town.
done without a reason and not deserved
unjustified criticism
The location turned out to be far too small and the costs unjustified.
slightly cruel
an unkind remark
I didn't tell her the truth because I thought it would be unkind.
His daughter-in-law was most unkind towards him.
not known
The exact number of people carrying the virus is unknown.
Unknown to me, she'd organized a party for my birthday.
There were few words and the address was unknown.
not famous
an unknown actor
Two unknown actors were being filmed while they were acting.
someone or something that you do not know and so you cannot be certain about
The road conditions in that area are a bit of an unknown quantity.
As mentioned above, the laser beam was an unknown quantity even to its inventor and those who contributed to its enhancement.
things that you have not experienced and know nothing about
It's normal to fear the unknown.
The most important factor when learning English is the hunger for knowledge, the hunger for the unknown.
except if
I won't call you unless there are any problems.
You can't get a job unless you've got experience.
Unless you call me to say you're not coming, I'll see you at the theatre.
I never go shopping unless it's necessary.
different from someone or something
The furniture was unlike anything she had ever seen.
Dan's actually quite nice, unlike his father.
Unlike you, I'm not a great dancer.
In fact the Hotel Astrid is now closed so I had to stay at the Riverside Hotel, which offers great savings for students, unlike the Hotel Royal which is quite expensive.
not typical of someone or something
It's unlike her to be quiet - was there something wrong?
Over the weeks he was getting more and more exhausted and started reducing his hours of work. That was so unlike him.
not likely
It's unlikely that we'll see them again.
We might see them there but it's fairly unlikely.
He's unlikely to arrive before midday.
Unfortunately, it is very unlikely that I would be able to go and collect the keys at that time, because I have arranged an appointment with my doctor to see him about my leg.
difficult to believe and probably not true
an unlikely explanation/story
Reflections on an unlikely tale - "It started with a kiss and ended with a twist", one would remark on Ann Patchett's 'Bel Canto'.
without any limits
a service that offers unlimited Internet access
Moreover, who has the freedom to buy whatever they need with an unlimited budget?
If a ship, aircraft, etc. unloads, goods are taken off it.
The ship unloaded in Marseilles.
Old fishing boats from everywhere unload their merchandise there.
to remove things from a vehicle
Can you help me unload the car?
We began to unload the car and showed the children around the house.
to open something which is locked using a key or an electronic device
They haven't unlocked the computer room yet.
She unlocked the door and went in.
having or causing bad luck
They played well and were unlucky to lose.
Some people think it's unlucky to walk under ladders.
I'm going to tell you a story of an unlucky man.
not married
She lives with her unmarried son.
It has even been proved by research carried out by a sociologist that the woman of today prefers to stay unmarried to keep her own identity.
not normal or right
an unnatural silence
unnatural conditions
Animals live in unnatural conditions, and die early.
in a way that is not necessary
Of course we don't want to alarm people unnecessarily, but they should be alerted to potential dangers.
The community should understand the reality of the effects of using private cars unnecessarily.
describes something that could be avoided or that is not needed
You don't want to make any unnecessary car journeys in this weather.
The aim is to kill the animal as quickly as possible without causing unnecessary suffering.
Don't waste too much time with unnecessary TV shows or computer games.
without being seen or noticed
We managed to slip away unnoticed.
But by the time we stop and look around us, it is usually too late to say goodbye to things that were with us, watched us grow and then disappeared, alone and unnoticed.
to remove things from a suitcase, bag or box
I haven't even had time to unpack my bag/case/clothes/suitcase.
After I unpacked, I asked if I could have a guide to show me around the town.
An unpaid debt, tax, etc. has not been paid.
They had nearly £20,000 in unpaid debts.
This amount was unpaid by the previous owner.
working without getting any money
unpaid work
At the time he was mostly doing unpaid work, living on a low budget and going to painting night-classes.
not enjoyable or pleasant
an unpleasant experience/smell
On top of that, if you stay in the countryside, you will avoid the smog and the noise of the city, which are very unpleasant!
rude and angry
The waiter got quite unpleasant with us.
The driver showed rather unpleasant behaviour and his uniform was untidy, while the stewardess on board was not helpful at all and did not care much about the appalling conditions we had to suffer on the coach.
disliked by most people
Night flights from the airport are deeply unpopular.
The government is becoming increasingly unpopular.
In addition, the outdoor swimming pool, supposedly unpopular, happens to be constantly full of people, since waterpolo classes are given for free and there is a bar just next to it.
never having happened before
The Internet has given people unprecedented access to information.
Last but not least, accidents in nuclear factories and nuclear waste are likely to cause unprecedented environmental damage.
changing so much that you do not know what will happen next
The weather there can be a bit unpredictable - one minute it's blue skies and the next minute it's raining hard.
The hours in this job are very unpredictable - you sometimes have to work late at very short notice.
By that time I was nervous because there were too many unpredictable things happening.
not producing anything of value
There were months of unproductive bureaucracy.
The meeting was totally unproductive.
Especially if these graduates are unemployed and they can't find a job easily, they would feel unproductive by staying home.
not showing the standard of behaviour or skills that are expected of a person in a skilled job
an unprofessional attitude
Doctor Rivers was charged with unprofessional conduct and improper use of dangerous drugs.
Your reporter was so inattentive and unprofessional that he did not bother to check the figures and mixed up 35 and 45.
without the qualifications or knowledge to do something
She was totally unqualified to look after children.
Polish schools lag behind the European ones. Moreover, the teachers are sometimes unqualified or unprepared.
in a way that is obvious and causes no doubt
She is unquestionably the best person for the job.
Although the content of the Conference was unquestionably well prepared, some organisational problems appeared.
Something that is unreal seems so strange that it is difficult to believe.
For a while I couldn't believe she was dead - it all seemed unreal.
To sum up, the reality of reality shows is that they want to simulate reality and therefore appear to be credible, a plausible opportunity for the audience to become participant and master at the same time: the most unreal situation of all.
not thinking about what is likely to happen or what you can really do
I think these sales forecasts are unrealistic, considering how slow sales are at present.
It's unrealistic to expect an answer before next week.
There must be an alternative to today's zoo, some may suggest a release of all confined animals, but I realise that is unrealistic.
not fair or acceptable
unreasonable behaviour/demands
It seems unreasonable to expect one person to do both jobs.
So it's unreasonable to think that a country can base its scholastic system only on the few things that students like.
in a way that is not fair
I thought the prices were unreasonably high.
He acted unreasonably.
Informing students and residents about the means of transport and reducing the unreasonably high ticket price are the keys to incite more people use such means.
having no connection
Police said his death was unrelated to the attack.
On top of that, and completely unrelated to these strikes, the medical services in the community broke down when the doctors and nurses went on a strike on their own.
not able to be trusted or depended on
The trains were noisy, dirty, and unreliable.
This article has 4 main errors which makes it unreliable and I am disappointed in it.
when a lot of people are angry about something and are likely to become violent
political/social unrest
Unemployment is inherently a source of social unrest since it concerns the citizens of a given nation very directly.
dangerous
The building is unsafe.
The water was dirty and unsafe to drink.
It was extremely unsafe as the safety belts were broken.
If you feel unsafe, you feel that you are in danger.
Many women feel unsafe on the streets at night.
It was then that I began to feel unsafe; I thought, if something happens, this mob will become something truly hard to control, and this idea frightened me for some time.
not good enough
We had a rather unsatisfactory meal.
It was a great idea, but I think I need to make some points about the things that I found unsatisfactory.
behaving in a way that is dishonest or unfair in order to get what you want
an unscrupulous financial adviser
We are loyal readers of your newspaper and we ask you to raise your voice in defence of our community against the unscrupulous sharks of big business.
having no answer or solution
an unsolved mystery/murder/crime
Consequently, a lot of problems remained unsolved.
An unspoiled place is beautiful because it has not been changed or damaged by people.
an island with clean, unspoiled beaches
I hope that one day this unfriendly place will become once more the peaceful, unspoiled and beautiful village that enchanted every passenger with its beauty.
not achieving what was wanted or intended
They made several unsuccessful attempts to reach the men.
His application was unsuccessful.
We tried very hard to score a second goal but all our efforts were unsuccessful.
in a way that is not successful
We tried unsuccessfully to climb the wall.
I tried to reach the company several times in the last two months, unsuccessfully.
not acceptable or right for someone or something
The software blocks material that is unsuitable for children.
If the date of the meeting is unsuitable for you, just inform me.
not certain or having doubts
I'm a bit unsure about what to do.
I was unsure of the directions.
I was unsure what/how to tell them.
As I have not been there before, I am rather unsure of what to wear.
without confidence
She had only been in the job for a week and was still a bit unsure of herself.
On the other hand, Kingshaw, normally weaker than Cooper, very sensitive, unsure of himself, has his ups, too, and comes, though very seldom, to feel determined and superior; when he climbs the rocks he is definitely head and shoulders above Cooper who hasn't a head for heights.
causing damage to the environment by using more of something than can be replaced naturally
unsustainable fishing methods
Moreover, the unsustainable use of the earth's resources will deprive future generations of the means of their survival.
Something that is unsustainable cannot continue at the same rate.
The level of spending on pensions is unsustainable.
If something is unthinkable, it is so strange that you cannot imagine it will ever happen.
Thirty years ago a no-smoking restaurant would have been unthinkable.
Nowadays it is simply unthinkable to live without a computer.
not tidy
an untidy room
She's really untidy at home.
Now we need to buy some drawers to put our clothes away, which are for the moment kept in our suitcase and look very untidy!
to open a knot or something that has been tied with a knot
I untied my shoelaces and kicked off my shoes.
She tried to untie the ropes but they were too strong.
continuing to happen before a particular time or event and then stopping
I'm staying here until the end of June.
The show will be on until the end of the month.
I was working until past midnight.
I don't go to college every day. I go only on Tuesday until 1.00 p.m.
as far as
Carry on until the traffic lights and then turn right.
You have to stay on the train until Charles DE GAULLE Etoile station.
not before a particular time or event
We didn't eat until past midnight.
It doesn't open until 7:00.
Two weeks ago I received your letter but I couldn't answer you until now.
continuing to happen before a particular time or event and then stopping
Hadn't we better wait until Antony arrives?
I waited until they'd gone before I started clearing up.
Whisk the egg whites until they look white and fluffy.
I had always wanted to travel by plane to another country but I didn't have the opportunity until I was eleven years old.
as far as
Go straight on until you reach the roundabout and then take the second exit.
On the second day, we cycled for approximately 4 hours until we reached a beautiful castle.
not before a particular time or event
We won't start the meeting until Jeanne is here.
We didn't stop laughing until the movie finished.
not changed or damaged in any way
Most of the island remains untouched by tourism.
The starting point is in Lokken, an idyllic fishing village beside the North Sea, still untouched by tourism.
false
We knew the rumours were untrue.
They realized that almost everything mentioned in your advertisement appeared to be untrue.
different and not ordinary, often in a way that is interesting or exciting
an unusual name/surname
He took the highly unusual step of making a public apology.
It's fairly unusual to keep insects as pets.
I was actually on time, which is very unusual for me.
It is about a dragon who is very kind and unusual!
bigger, stronger, better, etc. than is normal
unusually warm weather
On your free afternoon I suggest you visit our local museum, which is unusually large for such a small town.
in a way that is not usual for someone
Unusually for me, I actually couldn't finish my meal.
Gareth seemed unusually quiet.
not wanted
an unwanted gift
Children feel alone, unwanted and become very often latch-key children who come back to a sad home where nobody is waiting for them.
ill
to feel/look unwell
I won't be able to go to your English class tomorrow morning because my sister is unwell and I will have to stay with her.
not wanting to do something
A lot of people are unwilling to accept change.
I was unwilling to face the truth and the reality that my best friend had already left me.
in a way that shows that you do not want to do something
He unwillingly agreed to take her home.
What was worse, ours broke down on our way to the safari park, so we had to give it a miss unwillingly.
a state of not being willing to do something
Both sides have shown unwillingness to negotiate.
In the 70s some women also began to wear short skirts, which might be seen as a way to express their unwillingness to obey certain dress codes or as a symbol of their independence.
to relax, especially after working
Music helps me to unwind.
The houses will be semi-detached to allow neighbours to chat and unwind.
If you unwind something, or if something unwinds, it stops being curled round or twisted round something else and is made straight.
He unwound the bandage.
Slowly, the doctor unwound the bandages revealing the two cotton patches covering her eyes.
stupid and likely to cause problems
an unwise decision
But we don't want to put too much pressure on them because this is unwise and the worst thing parents could do to their children.
vertical or as straight as possible
He stood up.
She opened her eyes and sat up.
The whole class stood up and sang "Imagine".
towards or in a higher place or position
She looked up and smiled at me.
This road goes up into the Andes.
The water was up to the level of the windows.
As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name. I looked up and I saw my friend on the other side of the concert hall.
to walk directly towards someone or something until you are next to them
He came straight up to me and introduced himself.
She came up to him to help him with the luggage.
not in bed
I stayed up all night finishing this report.
That night we were up until late talking and after a couple of days she left.
If an action or decision is up to someone, they are responsible for doing or making it.
I can't decide for you, Jack, it's up to you.
It's up to Sophie to decide whether she wants to enter the competition.
This is my opinion but it's up to you.
to be doing or planning something
What are you up to at the moment?
They're up to something - I can tell.
What have you been up to?
to a greater degree, amount, volume, etc.
Please speak up, I can't hear you.
The fire heats the room up within minutes.
The cost of car insurance is up, but not very much.
Moreover the microphone suddenly wouldn't work anymore, and even though I desperately tried to speak up, people began to lose interest in both my speech and me and simply started to talk to each other instead.
used to emphasize that an action or process is complete
Come on, Maria, drink up your lemonade.
By the time we left, she had bought up half of the shop.
Anna, I broke one of your beautiful vases accidentally when I was trying to clean up the house one evening.
rising and falling
They were jumping up and down with impatience.
Well, you should be bouncing up and down with joy (just kidding)!
to be of bad quality
Her latest novel isn't up to much.
But above all, she had this extraordinary dining table, which didn't look up to much when you first walked in the room, but as you lifted the three layers of tablecloths protecting a huge piece of glass, you discovered an amazing display of objects from Alabama.
to or in a higher place or position
He ran up the steps.
We followed her up the stairs to a large meeting room.
We rode up the mountain on our bikes.
along or further along the street/road, etc.
They live just up the road.
Go up the street and turn left on the square.
any amount or number under 10, 20, etc.
We can invite up to 65 people.
A wedding can cost up to 10,000 SFr.
until a particular time
You can call me up until midnight.
The party will be in my house up to 1:00 a.m., then we will go to Jean's house.
from one end to the other and back again
They were running up and down the corridors.
Almost a thousand people were running up and down the ballroom shouting in panic: "Who's got matches?" "Turn the lights on!"
having all the most recent information about a subject or activity
The course should bring you up to speed with the latest techniques.
Apart from this you can keep yourself up to speed with what's happening around the world on various fronts.
the way that your parents look after you and the things that they teach you when you are growing up
a middle-class/religious upbringing
She had a very strict upbringing.
Now, as a grown-up person, I am trying to evaluate my upbringing objectively.
An upcoming event will happen soon.
the upcoming elections
This is a good way to keep our members informed about upcoming events.
to add new information
The website has just been updated.
We'll update you on this news story throughout the day.
Besides, I can also always update my knowledge by visiting the information and new technology websites on the Internet from time to time.
to make something more modern
They need to update their image.
On the other hand, the movies shown are updated regularly, I guess that part is under control.
new information
I'll need regular updates on your progress.
Television offers different programmes, such as documentaries, programmes on culture and updates on the news.
a new form of something which existed at an earlier time
a software update
It's an update of an old 60's movie.
to improve something so that it is of a higher quality or is a newer model
to upgrade a computer
The system has been upgraded.
The computer has upgraded most existing inventions, and made them more efficient, faster and more user friendly.
a piece of software or equipment that improves the quality, power or usefulness of a computer or machine
a hardware upgrade
The upgrade to version 5.0 costs £395.
something that is difficult to do and needs a lot of effort
I can lose weight but it's a real uphill struggle.
When this is the case, the families caring for them are faced with an uphill struggle, as it is difficult to reconcile the need for earning a living with the care of their relatives.
towards the top of a hill
We'd walked half a mile uphill.
She had not seen the lorry that made its way uphill and when she realized that she would crash right into it, it had been too late to do something.
to agree with a decision, especially a legal one, and say it was correct
The court upheld the ruling.
Last but not least, governments around the world should pass and uphold stricter laws concerning environmental issues.
to support a decision, principle, or law
Police officers are expected to uphold the law.
Additionally, some uphold the view that people living in the countryside face greater problems than those in towns.
the process of keeping something in good condition, or of keeping a person or animal healthy
The upkeep of a building like that must be so expensive.
This causes a big problem for pensioners, as they can not afford the daily upkeep of the houses.
to send a computer program or a document electronically from your computer, using the Internet
All the files have been uploaded to the server.
You should upload it to the website.
used at the beginning of a story to mean a long time ago
Once upon a time there was a beautiful princess.
Once upon a time there was a very poor family.
on
Upon her head she wore a black velvet hat.
Please report to the reception desk upon arrival.
He answered with a smile upon his face, 'As I just told everybody else, you will have the results by the end of June.'
at a higher position or level than something else
the upper lip/body
The office block's upper floors were being repainted.
I am doing the upper intermediate level and last summer I was in London for three months.
the highest amount or level, or the longest time that something is allowed
£45,000 is the upper limit for salaries in this job.
I understand that it will be more expensive than the accommodation I currently have, and I am willing to stretch the upper limit of the rent I can afford to pay.
to get into a stronger position than someone else so that you are controlling a situation
Government troops are gradually gaining the upper hand over the rebels.
He knew that Hooper had got the upper hand and that there was no escape.
belonging to or relating to the upper class
He spoke with a distinctly upper-class accent.
Talking about fashion, one always tends to think of glamorous designer dresses, catwalks in Paris, Rome or New York, and upper-class societies, able to spend huge amounts of money on luxurious clothing.
straight up or vertical
Please return your seats to an upright position and fasten your seat belts.
Immediately the pilot informed the passengers that the weather conditions were not good and told us to fasten our seatbelt, put the seat upright and adopt the emergency position.
unhappy or worried because something unpleasant has happened
They'd had an argument and she was still upset about it.
Mike got very upset when I told him the news.
She was very upset to hear that the holiday had been cancelled.
He was very upset that you didn't reply to his letters.
I was upset that you didn't come to my birthday party.
an illness in the stomach
I had an upset stomach after I ate that fish.
I wasn't feeling well at all with an upset stomach and headache.
to make someone feel unhappy or worried
The phone call had clearly upset her.
It still upsets him when he thinks about the accident.
Don't upset yourself by thinking about what might have happened.
This really upset me as no notice was given before the show.
having the part which is usually at the top turned to be at the bottom
Turn the jar upside down and shake it.
The plane was flying upside down at high speed.
One car landed on its side and the other was upside down.
The furniture was upside down and neither money nor cash were left.
on or to a higher level of a building
He ran upstairs to answer the phone.
If I forget something, I don't have to go upstairs.
on or at a higher level of a building
an upstairs window
Suddenly, Robert and I heard a strange noise coming from an upstairs room but we kept on reading quietly.
modern, recent, or containing the latest information
The website contains up-to-date information on live football matches.
The Internet keeps us up to date.
It is essential to have an up-to-date dictionary.
I will write more later - I do need to give you up-to-date information on my love life!
moving towards a higher place or level
an upward glance
an upward trend in sales
The third age group, 35-49 year olds, has also been experiencing an upward trend regarding the percentage of the group attending the cinema at least once a year.
towards a higher position, level or value
The cost of completion has been revised upwards again due to inflation.
In evaporation the water drops from seas are carried upwards and form clouds.
more than a particular amount
Double rooms cost upwards of £70 a night.
Once home to upwards of 50,000 people, Gaza was occupied by anti-government forces for over two years.
belonging or relating to a town or city
urban areas
urban development
We are generally more interested in an urban lifestyle than living in the countryside.
to try to persuade someone to do something
His parents urged him to go to university.
Finally, on behalf of the charity organisation, I urge you to print a new article, apologising and correcting the inaccuracies already published.
to strongly advise an action
Financial experts are urging caution.
a strong wish or need
I resisted the urge to slap him.
He suddenly felt the urge to go home.
very important and needing you to take action immediately
an urgent message
He's got to sign that paper - will you tell him it's urgent?
Many people are in urgent need of food and water.
I want to apologise for missing tomorrow's class, because I have to attend an urgent family meeting at my grandparents' house.
in a way that is urgent
Help is urgently needed.
I have e-mailed you to tell you that I need your bicycle urgently.
used after a verb or preposition to refer to the person who is speaking or writing and one or more other people
She gave us all a present.
Thank you for driving us to the station.
Would you like to have dinner with us next Saturday?
Our teacher talks to us and gives us some questions.
the way that words are used
a guide to English grammar and usage
That is why I couldn't solve all my problems with English usage.
the amount of something that is used, or the way that something is used
restrictions on water usage
We have therefore decided that, at our company, we will try to keep our energy usage as low as possible.
If you use something, you do something with it for a particular purpose.
Can I use your pen, please?
Do you use your computer much?
I paid for the tickets using my credit card.
She uses her car for work.
Nick used the money to buy a CD player.
Use scissors to cut the shapes out.
It gave me a chance to use my skills.
The old hospital isn't used any more.
She uses the Internet every day.
to take an amount from a supply of something
Taking a shower uses less water than having a bath.
These bulbs use a lot of electricity.
The equipment in the kitchen is very old and uses a lot of electricity and gas.
to say or write a particular word or phrase
'Autumn' is used in British English and 'fall' in American English.
to treat someone badly in order to get what you want
He was just using me to make his girlfriend jealous.
What a horrible thing to do, just using people - especially him!
when you use something, or when something is being used
an increase in the use of mobile phones
Guests have free use of the swimming pool.
Turn the machine off when it's not in use.
There's a very good book. It's called "English grammar in use".
a purpose for which something is used
A food processor has a variety of uses in the kitchen.
I'd have no use for a boat.
Don't throw that cloth away, you'll find a use for it one day.
We need computers in many places, and for many uses today.
one of the meanings of a word, or the way that a particular word is used
Can you list all the uses of the word 'point'?
to be useful
Is this bag of any use to you?
I hope my remarks will be of some use.
to not be useful
His advice turned out to be no use at all.
My mother came immediately, but it was no use because my brother isn't afraid of her, so she called my father.
used to say that trying to do something has no effect
It was no use talking to him - he just wouldn't listen.
It was no use trying to smoke cigarettes in this pub.
to use something that is available
We were encouraged to make use of all the facilities.
Finally, I think the designers will make use of the raw materials and create an innovative look for all of us.
permission to use something, or the ability to use something
Martin has offered me the use of his car.
She lost the use of both legs in the accident.
One of my closest friends who lost the use of her legs five years ago in a tragic car accident took part in this trip.
to be familiar with something or someone
We're used to tourists here - we get thousands every year.
He's used to working long hours.
She was not used to speaking Cantonese.
When I'm working, I'm used to wearing something more conservative.
to become familiar with something or someone
You'll get used to Ted eventually.
Climbers soon become used to the thinner air at 5000 metres.
In addition, I've got used to looking after them.
If something used to happen or a situation used to exist, it happened regularly or in the past but it does not happen or exist now.
She used to live in Detroit.
He used to be a pilot.
You don't come and see me like you used to.
When we were younger, we didn't used to drink coffee.
It's an American film about a girl that used to live in Africa.
helping you to do or achieve something
useful information/advice
A good knife is probably one of the most useful things you can have in a kitchen.
It has a camera and it is very useful.
to be useful and help someone do or achieve something, especially when there is nothing else to help them
You should keep that paint - it might come in useful.
However, I take great exception to the view that much of our school education is a waste of time because everything we learn at school might come in useful later during our adulthood.
the quality of being useful
He explained the usefulness of having a wi-fi connection.
They came back yesterday and I have interviewed them to find out what they think about the usefulness of the programme.
If something is useless, it does not work well or it has no effect.
This umbrella's useless - there's a big hole in it.
It's useless arguing with her.
I started digging, but it was useless.
having no skill in an activity
Dave's useless at football.
Every time I see her, she seems to be busy sewing, knitting etc. In this I really envy her, I'm quite useless at making clothes, although I can certainly do adjustments on my clothes, make curtains and such things.
someone who uses a product, machine or service
drug users
Unemployed people are the main users of this advice centre.
When you log in, you will be asked for your user name and password.
I would like to meet other experienced computer users in order to share programs as well as tips and tricks about programming.
in the way that happens most of the time
As usual, James was the last to arrive.
As usual, I'll travel by plane.
normal and happening most often
I went to bed at my usual time.
You'll find the box in its usual place.
There was more rain than usual this summer in the mountain areas.
We are going to meet at 5 pm at the station and then go for a pizza - you know where, the usual place "Pizza Express".
in the way that most often happens
He usually gets home about 6 o'clock.
I usually just have a sandwich for lunch.
Is he usually so rude?
"Does this shop open on Sundays?" "Usually."
Hungarian people usually eat breakfast at 6 or 7 o'clock.
used to emphasize how important or serious something is
a matter of the utmost importance
The situation needs to be handled with the utmost care.
In my opinion, there are features of utmost importance that should be carefully checked.
to try as hard as you can to do something
We did our utmost to finish the project on time.
In addition, we live in a materialistic society where we all do our utmost in order to make ends meet, but we are never satisfied.
used to emphasize something
She dismissed the article as utter nonsense.
To act otherwise would be, in my opinion, utter nonsense.
to say something
She left without uttering a word.
After I had told him about it, he was in such despair that he was not able to utter a single word.
completely
It's utterly ridiculous.
The information provided in your report about the final goal was utterly wrong.
a job that is available for someone to do
Tell me if you hear of any vacancies for secretaries.
We look forward to meeting you at your earliest convenience to discuss details, go over our salary and health package as well as any other questions you might have, before starting the procedure of finding suitable candidates for the job vacancies.
a room that is available in a hotel
Do you have any vacancies?
The hotels have no vacancies, the tourists are everywhere.
Somewhere that is vacant is available because it is not being used.
a vacant building
The room next to ours is vacant at the moment.
You see, we have plenty of vacant rooms so you would not cause any trouble.
A vacant job is available for someone to do.
The assistant marketing post is vacant - why don't you apply?
Therefore, I believe I am suitable for your vacant position.
to give someone a vaccine to stop them from getting a disease
Have you been vaccinated against polio?
Today, in most civilized countries, small kids are vaccinated against most lethal viruses, like hepatitis, and old people are even vaccinated against the flu.
an injection that protects you against a disease
All the children are given a meningitis vaccination.
Local health-care centres are assisting with birth-control advice, vaccinations and general check-ups.
a substance that is given to people to stop them from getting a particular disease
Doctors have run out of the flu vaccine.
An experiment was recently conducted by the same scientist group to verify if the vaccine works.
not clear or certain
I have a vague idea of where the hotel is.
He was a bit vague about directions.
Do not misunderstand me: I greatly enjoyed the conference but it did not give me the satisfaction of having even a vague idea of what I would like to do...
showing that someone is not thinking clearly or does not understand
a vague expression
If someone had asked him why, this person would have given a vague look, a dismissive shrug of two shoulders and a "oh, just because".
in a way that is not clear or certain
I vaguely remember meeting him at Lionel's house.
I can vaguely remember the decor, and if I tried harder maybe I could remember the taste of the ice-cream.
without any success
I tried in vain to start a conversation.
We looked in vain for the guide through three London parks.
A vain attempt/effort, etc. does not have the result you want.
I made a vain attempt to engage him in conversation.
Many flew to cities in the vain hope of earning money, thus increasing the number of the homeless .
too interested in your own appearance and thinking you are very attractive
He's terribly vain.
Men are vain creatures who worry, maybe excessively, about beauty and keeping up with standards of beauty set by society.
based on good reasons or facts that are true
a valid excuse/reason
a valid argument/criticism
My ideas might be different from yours, but they're equally valid.
You could hardly think of Dr Quimper as guilty, because every one of the Crackenthorpe family had a valid reason to kill.
officially or legally acceptable
The ticket is valid for three months.
My passport is valid for another two years.
You need to enter a valid password.
Is this offer valid for the weekends, as well?
how true or reasonable something is
We should question the validity of these statements.
This statement is so obvious we almost never question its validity.
an area of low land between hills or mountains, often with a river running through it
the Nile Valley
the Thames valley
There was snow on the hill tops but not in the valley.
My home town is situated in a valley.
Valuable objects are worth a lot of money.
valuable paintings
These antiques are extremely valuable.
So as you can imagine, not only is the ring valuable but it also means a lot to me since it makes me remember Brazil!
Valuable information, advice, etc. is very helpful or important.
He was able to provide the police with some valuable information.
This trip will allow me to gain valuable knowledge and experience.
how much money something could be sold for
The new road has affected the value of these houses.
She had already sold everything of value that she possessed.
Cars quickly go down in value.
The value of the pound fell against other European currencies yesterday.
"Well, there was nothing of value in the suitcase," my mother remarked, but I was close to tears.
If something is good value, it is of good quality or you think the amount of money you spent on it was right.
The meal was very good value.
It's really good value for money, including all equipment, accommodation and food.
how useful or important something is
The documents are of great historical value.
The necklace had great sentimental value.
I was really sad because these shoes had a lot of sentimental value for me, and they were made of genuine leather!
the beliefs people have about what is right and wrong and what is most important in life, which control their behaviour
family/moral/traditional values
A tragedy occurs which causes Andrew to rediscover his moral values.
If you accept something at face value because of the way it first looks or seems, you do so without thinking carefully about it.
You can't just accept everything you read in the newspapers at face value.
These results should not be taken at face value - careful analysis is required to assess their full implications.
People are assessed at face value by the type of cars they drive.
to consider something important
I've always valued her advice.
I will learn how other people live and I will also learn to value the things I have.
to judge how much money something could be sold for
The ring was valued at $1000.
My house was valued at £200,000.
a vehicle that is used for carrying things but which is smaller than a truck
a delivery van
a van driver
I looked in my mirror and saw a white van.
the crime of intentionally damaging things in public places
There has been more vandalism in the town centre recently.
As the members of the local council will know, our area is facing many problems with youths hanging around on the weekends causing grievances such as vandalism, noise and stealing in the local shops.
to disappear suddenly
The sun vanished behind the clouds.
The child vanished while on her way home from school.
I went after the thief but he vanished into the crowd.
when someone thinks they are very attractive and is too interested in their own appearance
Her vanity is staggering.
The vanity of wearing the most fashionable clothes bores my other friend, Kate, to death.
changing often
The sound quality on the recording is variable.
By contrast the figure is more variable regarding the other topics.
a number, amount, or situation which can change
A patient's recovery time depends on so many variables, such as age, weight, and general health.
There are too many variables and happiness may also depend on the social background of a person.
a difference in amount or quality
variations in price/temperature
There was some variation in the quality of the prints.
Apart from this, there is very little variation in temperature between day and night.
something that is slightly different from the usual form
It's a variation on the standard apple pie.
Big Brother's counterpart, "Lost Story", did really well the first time and a bit less the second time. Still, it is very popular and a variation on this theme, called "Nine people", still does very well today.
consisting of many different things or types
a varied diet
a long and varied career
Remember you should always eat a varied diet.
many different types of things or people
Ben has done a variety of jobs.
Hi Nick, I'd like a variety of music at the party.
the quality of often changing or of being made of many different things
Factory work often lacks variety.
I think you need a bit more variety in your diet.
You know, I like variety a lot and don't like my friends to see me with the same clothes.
many different
I left London for various reasons.
They have offices in various parts of the country.
We had various problems on our journey, including a puncture.
There are various ways of raising money.
We played various games and danced too.
If things of the same type vary, they are different from each other.
Car prices vary greatly/widely across Europe.
The samples varied in quality but were generally acceptable.
The price of the dishes varies.
to change or to cause something to change
Temperatures vary depending on/according to the time of year.
I try to vary what I eat.
To vary the pictures of cultural events, I would recommend visiting the Wednesday market, which starts at 8 am.
a container that you put flowers in
a glass vase
a vase of flowers
Yesterday I went to a shopping centre with my mother, and bought a small desk, a radio, a vase, and a small sofa.
extremely big
a vast amount/sum of money
vast areas of forest
The vast majority of pupils attend state schools.
Among the vast choice of interesting buildings to photograph I can name the "National Portrait Museum", a huge building in renaissance style, and the old "Castle of Sforza", built in the eleventh century.
a plant that you eat, for example potatoes, onions, beans, etc.
fresh/frozen vegetables
vegetable soup/curry
fruit and vegetables
In the winter we eat more root vegetables, such as carrots and parsnips.
Raw vegetables contain more vitamins than cooked vegetables.
I like eating fish, vegetables, fruit and salad.
someone who does not eat meat or fish
Of the four million people who have become vegetarians in Britain, nearly two-thirds are women.
I've heard that even the non-vegetarian food is good there, but I'm a vegetarian.
not eating, containing or using meat or fish
All her children are vegetarian.
vegetarian cooking/food
a vegetarian dish/meal
She's recently gone/become vegetarian.
Do you like vegetarian food?
the plants and trees that grow in a particular area
They hacked a path through the dense vegetation.
I dream of being the first one to set foot on a white sandy beach, to admire a new kind of vegetation: cranberry bushes, sweet potatoes, wild turkeys, a different climate; how scary and exciting at the same time!
something such as a car or bus that takes people from one place to another, especially using roads
The driver of the vehicle was unhurt.
Sometimes I watch programmes about cars and other vehicles, because I'm keen on them.
something that you use as a way of telling people your ideas or opinions
The paper was merely a vehicle for his political beliefs.
And you, as our local newspaper, will become a vehicle for our objections.
a thin piece of material that covers a woman's face
She wore a thin veil.
And most brides wear a long veil so grooms can't see their wife's face.
one of the tubes in your body that carries blood to the heart
the veins in the leg/neck
Do you love the sensation of your blood rushing in your veins, your knees trembling slightly and your hair standing to attention? Well, I do, and dangerous sports are the thing for me.
cloth that has a thick, soft surface on one side
a black velvet jacket
Then came the day of his funeral and we attended the ceremony (as good neighbours do when someone from next door dies), only to find that it was held by a group of 12 sombre men, clad in dark velvet robes, each one of them holding a black candle, chanting some kind of mourning song that haunted our memories for the rest of the day and, perhaps even the following night.
to express strong anger or another strong feeling
He gave vent to the frustration that had been building up inside him.
It's a great fallacy that giving vent to our emotion will be a solution to the problem itself and will lead to anything at all.
to do or say something to show your anger or another strong, bad feeling
He vented his anger by kicking the door.
The room at the attic was my only haven, the sole asylum where I could forget the wrinkled face ranting and raving at me, fuming with animosity towards me, venting her anger and frustration and all the other feelings bottled up in her.
a new activity or business
a business venture
They even give vast amounts of people a means of living, and can become very lucrative business ventures.
to leave a safe place and go somewhere that may involve risks
If the snow stops, I might venture out.
After having visited some of the more frequented islands, we decided to venture out to the island of Fourni.
used to say that it is worth trying something, even if you may not succeed
It will be quite expensive ... still, nothing ventured nothing gained!
It was a demanding task to prepare it but nothing ventured nothing gained.
a place where a sports game, musical performance, or special event happens
The hotel is an ideal venue for conferences and business meetings.
The stadium has been specifically designed as a venue for European Cup matches.
This festival has already got a good reputation as an alternative venue for both artists and audience.
a word that is used to say that someone does something or that something happens. For example the words 'arrive', 'make', 'be', and 'feel' are verbs.
a regular/irregular verb
It is very good for grammar, irregular verbs, etc. The name of the book is "Murphy's grammar" and it's only four Pounds.
relating to words or the use of words
verbal ability/skills
Not only would this system help the keen students to improve their verbal fluency, it would also help them to prepare their lessons in time for the next class.
spoken and not written
a verbal promise/agreement
Airport officials received a stream of verbal abuse from angry passengers whose flights had been delayed.
a decision made in a court of law or by a person in authority
a guilty verdict
The jury took nine hours to reach a verdict.
As far as I can see it the redundancy verdict is based on the judgement about an employee's value.
to be going to happen or to do something very soon
a company on the verge of financial disaster
I was on the verge of leaving my job.
I was on the verge of depression, when I decided to take control of my own life.
to prove that something is true, or do something to discover if it is true
It was impossible to verify her statement.
The Canadian Patent Office Branch will be responsible for verifying if new inventions are truly new or have already been invented somewhere in the world.
having many different skills
a versatile player/performer
She is a very gregarious and versatile person whose scintillating and jocular personality makes everybody melt.
useful for doing a lot of different things
a versatile tool
The Internet today is the most versatile tool in so many ways.
one of the parts that a song or poem is divided into
I only know the first verse of the poem.
Each verse was sung as a solo and then everyone joined in on the chorus.
But I was so puzzled that when I tried to sing, I couldn't remember a word of the verse I had written.
one form of something that is slightly different to other forms of the same thing
An English-language version of the book is planned for the autumn.
The original version of the film is much better.
a new/updated version
Who has never said that the original book was better than the film version?
someone's description of what has happened
Bates gave his version of events to the police.
For that reason, I have to ask you for a formal apology in print, where you could give the correct version of events and also change the bad image you gave to the readers of the people of my organisation.
used to say that one team or person is competing against another
Tomorrow's game is Newcastle versus Arsenal.
Starting in chronological order you can see the first game - Argentina versus Germany - which was a revenge for the final competition in the previous World Cup, '88.
used to compare two things or ideas, especially when you have to choose between them
private education versus state education
Mobile phones - fashion versus utility Nowadays, everywhere you look, there is someone speaking on a mobile phone.
pointing straight up from a surface
a vertical line
The vertical axis shows the percentage of age groups attending the cinema at least once in a year, while the horizontal axis represents the years from 1990 to 2010.
used emphasize an adjective or adverb
Thank you very much.
She was very pleased.
He's very kind.
The situation is very serious.
Think about it very carefully before deciding.
My teacher is very nice.
not good, tall, happy, etc.
The film wasn't very good.
He doesn't sing very well.
My college is not very big.
to a large amount or degree
Thank you very much for the flowers!
I like her very much.
I like Bradford very much.
used to emphasize a noun
This is the very book I've been looking for all month.
You're the very person we need for the job.
The letter was sent on Monday from Manchester and arrived in London the very same/next day.
You cannot infringe individual liberties and ban the purchase of cars - it would go against the very fabric of modern society.
a piece of underwear that you wear under a shirt
You'll need a vest in this weather.
The contents include two items of male underwear, size medium, white colour. Also a pair of white socks and one vest medium size.
someone whose job is to give medical care to animals that are ill or hurt
Helen is training to become a vet.
Sorry Mr Smith but I'll miss tomorrow's class as I have to go to the vet with my dog.
someone who has been in an army or navy during a war
a veteran of World War Two
But even now I can recollect my unwillingness to get involved in parades, to join the veterans, military men, soldiers who were really proud of having a rare opportunity to feel a cog in a big wheel.
someone who has done a job or activity for a long time
a 20-year veteran of BBC news
Since I'm a passionate and veteran traveller, I do agree with some points.
going through or stopping at a place on the way to another place
The train to Utrecht goes via Amsterdam.
Two years ago I travelled to Canada via Italy.
using a particular machine, system or person to send or recieve something
Reports are coming in via satellite.
I only found out about it via my sister.
I hate shopping via the internet.
effective and able to be successful
a viable alternative to nuclear power
an economically viable plan
This is a question that demands reasonable answers and viable solutions.
something bad that someone often does
Smoking is his only vice.
At present I'm a heavy smoker and I think I will do my best to keep them away from this unhealthy vice.
used for referring to the opposite of what you have just said
Never use indoor lights outside and vice versa.
The piles of cash are not far away from any celebrity and we all know that time equals money and vice versa.
in the area near a place
A number of buildings in the vicinity of the fire were damaged.
This centre would provide new sports and leisure premises for our town and would certainly attract young people from other towns in the vicinity as well.
violent and dangerous
a vicious attack on a child
a vicious dog
She was a real, vicious murderer.
intended to upset someone
a vicious rumour
One advantage with this school that rose above the others, was the fact that there was virtually no cruel bullying or vicious teasing.
a continuing unpleasant situation, created when one problem causes another problem which then makes the first problem worse
Many people get trapped in a vicious circle of dieting and weight gain.
So we could say that it becomes a vicious circle.
someone who has suffered the effects of violence, illness or bad luck
victims of crime
The children are the innocent victims of the fighting.
The new drug might help save the lives of cancer victims.
His wife was his last victim.
when you win a game, competition, election, fight, war, etc.
Phoenix managed a 135-114 victory over Denver.
Grant won/achieved/gained a comfortable/easy victory over Cooper in yesterday's match.
This result is a victory for democracy.
They were all celebrating their victory with a gorgeous dinner.
a short film that can be watched on television, a computer, a camera, etc.
music videos
video sites
They showed me their wedding video.
I like it because it has a camera to make videos.
a film, television programme, etc. recorded on a long, narrow, magnetic strip, or the recorded strip itself that is inside a rectangular plastic container
He just used to stay in and watch videos.
We had the whole series on video.
On that channel you have the chance to watch many videos of your favourite singer, and learn about their news.
a short video recording that you can see on a website
The website has several video clips of Murray's recent matches.
It shows how a band or a singer do their video clips.
a game in which you make pictures move on a screen
He plays a lot of video games.
We played cricket, and we also played video games.
the things that you can see from a place
On a clear day, the view from the top of the mountain is amazing.
The rooftop restaurant has a spectacular view across the bay.
The view from the window of my room is the best one.
your opinion
We have different views about/on education.
In my view, her criticisms were justified.
I take the view that everyone should be free to decide for themselves.
It's my view that everyone should have the right to choose.
We had a friendly exchange of views.
Well, in my view, spending time in a city is more sensible.
how well you can see something from a particular place
We had a great view of the procession.
Don't stand in front of me - you're blocking my view of the stage.
She turned a corner, and disappeared from view.
In a few seconds, he disappeared out of my view.
because of
In view of recent events, we have decided to cancel the meeting.
In view of what happened, I would advise you not to try to mislead people like this again.
so that you can do something
He's doing some improvements on the house with a view to selling it.
The purpose of this report is to assess the success of the latest tour our sports club organised and make relevant suggestions with a view to enhancing future trips.
a position from which something can be seen
The house was hidden from view behind a wall.
He turned the corner and the harbour came into view.
The animal disappeared as unexpectedly as it came into view.
to watch something
They were able to view the city from a helicopter.
People sit in palatial cafes and restaurants to view the beauty of that "lazy river".
to have a particular opinion about someone or something
In all three countries he is viewed as a terrorist.
There is of course the argument of many young people: that they live in a society that oppresses them, where they cannot express themselves freely and where, whatever they do or say, they are viewed as 'punks' or 'idiots' by adults.
someone who watches a television programme
Millions of viewers will be watching this match.
He's an extraordinary person and TV viewers will love him because of his good sense of humour and his honesty.
a way of thinking about a situation
From his viewpoint the action seemed entirely justified.
As a student, I feel concerned about the traffic issue and I asked some people about their viewpoints on the two proposals.
a place where people live in the countryside that includes buildings such as shops but is smaller than a town
a small fishing village
She lives in a small village outside Oxford.
Many people come from the surrounding villages to work in the town.
a village shop
My grandmother lived in a village and I often went there.
someone who lives in a village
Most of the villagers are opposed to the new road.
We, the villagers, are very worried about the effect the noise will have on our children and their sense of hearing.
a plant that grapes grow on
The wall was covered in a vine.
After following the walking path through the vines at Canon-Fronsac you could climb the Canon Mountain to have a view all over the region.
a sour liquid that is used in cooking, often made from wine
red wine vinegar
Would you like oil and vinegar on your salad?
to not obey a law, rule, or agreement
Countries that violate international law will be dealt with in court.
All three points strongly violate the regulations and immediate action is required.
when someone tries to hurt or kill someone else
an act of violence
A number of people were killed in the violence.
Violence against women has increased in recent years.
The recent outbreak of violence in the region is very disturbing.
Today, it is important that children and teenagers do something with their free time and do not get in contact with criminality and violence.
extreme force and energy, especially of something causing damage
Such was the violence of the explosion that three buildings collapsed.
involving violence
a violent crime
a violent protest
His films tend to be very violent.
Some say that television can affect people in bad ways and sometimes causes violent incidents.
using force to hurt or attack someone else
a violent criminal
He shouts a lot but I don't think he's ever been physically violent towards her.
Now Mary knew what happened at Jamaica Inn and it was very dangerous for her because her uncle was a violent man.
sudden and causing damage
a violent explosion/storm
The violent storm was rocking the ship back and forth.
in a way that involves violence
He often behaved violently and they were terrified of him.
He claimed to have been violently assaulted while in prison.
Sometimes they behave violently because of their imprisonment.
a wooden musical instrument with four strings, which you hold against your neck and play by moving a bow across the strings
I've been learning the violin for the last four years.
My hobbies are reading and playing the violin.
someone who has never had sex
She was a virgin at the time of her marriage.
Why was it that everybody assumed that after your 18th birthday you could not possibly be a virgin any more?
Virgin land, forest, etc. has not been used or damaged by people.
50 acres of virgin woodland
The balance of nature is threatened by the construction of luxurious hotels in the middle of virgin forests.
using computer images and sounds that make you think an imagined situation is real
a virtual art gallery online
However, I go far away from my family and other people and have virtual relationships.
almost a particular thing or quality
Ten years of bad government had brought about the virtual collapse of the country's economy.
War in the region now looks like a virtual certainty.
However the growth of our cities and townships coupled with an exponential increase in traffic and facilities have transformed these areas into virtual no-go zones
almost
I've virtually finished.
Their twins are virtually identical.
That wine stain on my shirt has virtually disappeared.
Virtually everyone today can go out and buy their own personal computer.
in a way that uses computer images and sounds that make you think an imagined situation is real
Nowadays all these things can be experienced virtually.
I also have the possibility of making new friends: I can connect to a special site which will enable me to meet people virtually.
when a computer produces images and sounds that make you think an imagined situation is real
virtual reality games
virtual reality software
Magnificent scientific projects are done by computers, as well as daily shopping, communication with people in other parts of the world, games, getting any kind of information and, soon, virtual reality!
because of something
She succeeded by virtue of hard work rather than talent.
However, you should take into consideration the expenses, which might be exorbitant by virtue of the fact that you intend to create places with a beautiful ambience and a wide range of comforts offered that will facilitate residents' lives.
a good quality that someone has
Patience is not among his virtues.
The saying 'patience is a virtue' has been very over-used but that does not make it any less true.
an advantage or useful quality
The great virtue of having a small car is that you can park it easily.
Finally it should be said that despite the negative attitudes towards the overcrowding of our good old Earth, longer life seems to have more virtues than drawbacks.
behaviour that is morally good
She was a woman of great virtue.
Mother Theresa, she was a model of virtue.
a program that is secretly put onto a computer in order to destroy the information that is stored on it
My computer has been behaving oddly and I suspect it's a virus.
That document was a "virus" and erased all my documents on my computer.
an infectious organism too small to be seen that causes disease, or an illness that it causes
a flu virus
I don't know exactly what's wrong with her - I think it's some sort of virus.
My "friend" Pat told everybody that my brother died and that he died because he got a virus - that's why I didn't have friends because all the people thought that I had the virus too.
an official mark in your passport which allows you to enter or leave a particular country
We travelled to Argentina on a tourist visa.
Tomorrow I am not going to attend the class because I have to apply for my visa at 9.00.
able to be seen
You should wear something light-coloured when you're cycling at night so that you're more visible.
The fire was visible from five kilometres away.
There are few visible signs of the illness that kept her in hospital for so long.
The comet should be visible to the naked eye.
He waited curiously for her to become visible through the fog, which seemed to have become denser in the last few seconds.
obvious or noticeable
She is a higly visible environmental spokesperson.
There is a visible improvement in your essay writing.
After about three months I noticed a visible improvement.
in a way that can be seen
He was visibly upset.
However, it is my firm conviction that if the authority reconsiders some of its regulations and take urgent steps, the number of unemployed people will be visibly reduced.
an idea or image in your mind of what something could be like in the future
a vision of a better society
We see in his novels his grim vision of the future.
All in all, I think you must write a new report to apologize for having been so pessimistic and having given such a bleak vision of this Festival.
the ability to see
He has poor vision in his left eye.
Her hands were sweating and her vision had become a blur because of the tension in the air.
the ability to make plans for the future that are imaginative and wise
As a leader, he lacked vision.
A man of vision, Eleftherios Venizelus played a significant role in the history of my country, as in his time it became, with few changes, what it is today.
to go to someone's home and spend time with them
Will you visit me when I'm in hospital?
We have friends coming to visit this weekend.
She visits her parents once a week.
to go to a place and spend a short amount of time there
We visited a few galleries while we were in Prague.
It's a very nice place with a lot of shops and museums to visit, like the "Louvre" for example.
to look at a website
There's the usual invitation to visit their website.
If you want more information or you want to see photos about the art class, visit our website: www.artclass.com.
when you visit a place or a person
the President's visit to Argentina
I think I'll pay a visit to the hairdresser's while I'm in town.
We had a visit from the school inspector last week.
The problem is that my mother arranged a visit to the doctor, and after that to the dentist.
someone who visits a person or place
Ben, you've got some visitors to see you.
The museum attracts large numbers of visitors.
I did a very good meal for all of my visitors.
relating to seeing
The film has some powerful visual effects.
It also provides a clear idea of how people's lives were in a particular period by showing us the visual images of that time.
necessary or extremely important
Tourism is vital to the country's economy.
The kidney plays a vital role/part in the removal of waste products from the blood.
It's absolutely vital that you follow the instructions exactly.
If you don't mind I would like to ask you some vital questions.
energy and strength
At 48, he still projects an image of youth and vitality.
His bad behaviour was often excused, being blamed on his "boyish vitality", while I was expected to be a good girl most of the time.
in a very important way
Safety at work is vitally important.
Being able to use the computer and the Internet successfully is vitally important in today's society but it will be even more important in the future.
one of a group of natural substances that you need to be healthy
a vitamin pill
Oranges are full of vitamin C.
On the one hand, we eat a lot of sweet or fat food, which lacks vitamins.
A vivacious person, especially a woman, is full of energy and enthusiasm.
She is extremely vivacious.
She was a vivacious and audacious girl keen on getting to know the world outside Israel.
Vivid descriptions or memories produce strong, clear images in your mind.
He gave a very vivid account/description of life in Havana.
I still have a very vivid memory of the evening.
She has a very vivid imagination.
Each memory is still so vivid.
A vivid colour is very bright.
She was wearing a vivid pink shirt.
Students would like to have some vivid colours or pictures on the walls but the best solution would be to repaint the walls.
in a vivid way
I vividly remember my first day at school.
She could vividly remember the last time he hurt her, only then it was with a razor.
all the words you know in a particular language
a broad/wide/limited vocabulary
Reading helps to broaden your vocabulary.
I'm sure I will improve my vocabulary and English Grammar.
all the words that exist in a language, or that are used when discussing a particular subject
Computing has its own specialist vocabulary.
The tuition is well adapted to our needs, I mean a specialized vocabulary and the ability to speak with our clients from the English-speaking areas in a fluent way even for technical matters.
a strong feeling that you are right for a particular type of work, or a job that gives you this feeling
He knew that teaching was his true vocation.
He was a teacher, seeing teaching as his vocation, and nothing could boost his confidence as much as excellent students and successful results.
Vocational education and skills prepare you for a particular type of work.
The college offers both vocational and academic courses.
Homeless people need counselling and education in order to adapt themselves to modern society, appropriate guidance on how to get a job, what vocational qualification is required, and to equip them with confidence to resist the temptation of being in a rut again.
the sounds that are made when people speak or sing
She has a very loud/quiet/soft voice.
a clear/deep voice
You could tell from her voice that she wasn't pleased.
She lowered her voice to a whisper.
Could you please keep your voices down?
Her voice is so clear and she has the nicest eyes which I've ever seen.
to become unable to speak, often because of an illness
She had a bad cold and was losing her voice.
I immediately became agitated and at the precise moment of my speech I lost my voice completely.
to speak loudly and angrily to someone
He never raised his voice at the children.
Not every au-pair family is pleasant. And believe me, mine was giving me hell on earth. ... After I returned home I took some time to learn not to freak out when someone raised his voice and eventually I started to see my time in Germany as a great lesson in life.
to say what you think about a particular subject
He has voiced concern about the new proposals.
And in the end they voiced their wishes to re-unify Germany.
a mountain with a large hole at the top which sometimes explodes and produces hot, melted rock and smoke
an extinct/active volcano
Erupting volcanoes discharge massive quantities of dust into the atmosphere.
Finally, I think that a good place to go is Santorini, a beautiful island which has a volcano.
a game in which two teams use their hands to hit a ball over a net without allowing it to touch the ground
They played volleyball on the beach.
My hobbies are playing volleyball and watching TV.
the level of sound produced by a television, radio, etc.
Could you turn the volume up/down, please.
After we went to the disco and we danced together, but the volume of the music was too high to talk!
the number or amount of something, especially when it is large
I was put off by the volume of work involved.
The volume of traffic in the city is causing problems.
Nowadays, marketing volume is rapidly increased in Internet business, according to one of the major newspapers.
a book, especially one of a set
a new dictionary in two volumes
This book which I adored as a child, and as a matter of fact, one which I often come back to, comprises seven volumes, each giving a vivid account of the adventures that the Pevensie siblings, Lucy, Edmund, Susan and Peter, encounter in the magical land of Narnia.
If something speaks volumes, it makes an opinion, characteristic or situation very clear without the use of words.
She said very little, but her face spoke volumes.
It remains to be seen whether the effect of stem cells when applied to humans would be the same, but the achievements speak volumes about the fact that stem cells may one day turn a new page in many people's lives and let them get rid of that humiliating label of a "disabled person."
If you do something voluntarily, nobody has forced you to do it.
She left voluntarily.
After he had himself discharged voluntarily from the hospital, he drove up to the cliff, and left his car there.
Voluntary work is done without being paid and usually involves helping people.
She does voluntary work for Doctors Without Borders.
voluntary organizations
I did voluntary work for a whole year in 1998 in Britain.
a person who does something, especially helping other people, willingly and without being forced or paid to do it
a Red Cross volunteer
The charity relies on volunteers to run the office and answer the telephones.
Well the concert was Friday night and I went there with the Red Cross volunteers, did you know I'm one of them?
to offer to do something without being asked or told to do it
Rob volunteered to look after the kids.
One of my classmates, Maria, has volunteered to talk about the different courses and summer activities that the school offers.
If someone vomits, the food or liquid that was in their stomach comes up and out of their mouth.
She was vomiting blood.
They assured me that they felt very sorry for me, but then they always changed the subject quickly and began joking and laughing, whereas I went into the toilet and vomited, because I could not live with all the disgust.
to show your choice or opinion in an election or meeting by writing a mark on an official piece of paper or by putting your hand up
Who did you vote for?
The unions voted against strike action.
Staff have voted to accept the pay offer.
She was too young to vote in the national election.
The committee voted on the proposal, and accepted it.
Then the audience and the judges voted which country was the best.
when someone shows their choice or opinion in an election or meeting by writing a cross on an official piece of paper or putting their hand up
He lost the election by twenty votes.
The suggestion was approved, with 25 votes in favour, and 7 against.
She cast her vote for the Green Party.
The one who gets the most votes will get 1000 Baht as first prize.
a way of making a decision by asking a group of people to vote
We called a meeting in order to take a vote on the issue.
when someone is officially allowed to vote
In some countries women still don't have the vote.
Women acquired the vote only 70 years ago.
to vote
Many people cast their votes for the opposition.
When the day of the General Elections came, no woman cast her vote for James and he lost his seat to a man from a minority party, not even the man representing the Labour Party.
a person who votes or who has a legal right to vote, especially in an election
Of course, tax cuts are usually popular with (the) voters.
Are you a Labour voter?
Raising taxes to support low-cost housing or provide support for children and women who have been exposed to domestic violence may be unpopular with voters, but it should be emphasised that spending money to reduce homelessness certainly will pay off in the long run.
to make a serious promise or decision
She vowed that she would never leave the children again.
I've vowed never to go there again.
Most definitely Yiannakis' plan had not worked out and after that episode he vowed that he would never set foot in a stadium again.
a serious promise or decision
marriage vows
I made a vow that I would write to him once a week.
The vows (and the rings) are exchanged after a short speech given by the priest.
a speech sound that you make with your lips and teeth open, shown in English by the letters a, e, i, o, or u
A short vowel is a short sound as in the word 'cup'.
A long vowel is a long sound as in the word 'shoe'.
In the game, he let the students choose a vowel or consonant.
a long journey, especially by ship, or in space
Cook's voyage to Australia
Besides, I have a good command of French and I speak English fluently, which might be also useful during the voyage around the world.
easy to hurt or attack physically or emotionally
She was a vulnerable sixteen-year-old.
The troops are in a vulnerable position.
He's more vulnerable to infection because of his injuries.
Therefore they are vulnerable to being twisted by their environment, by events, or by more manipulative minds.
the amount of money a person regularly receives for their job
weekly wages
He earns/gets good wages at the factory.
a very low/high wage
the minimum wage
an hourly/daily/weekly wage
I know it is not nice for my family but I earn a good wage for that.
the part of the body above and slightly narrower than the hips
a small/narrow/tiny/large waist
These trousers are a bit tight around my waist.
She has a 26-inch waist.
Chris was holding his arm tightly around Claire's waist.
to stay in a place until someone or something arrives, or until someone or something is ready for you
I waited for her in the corridor while she went in to see the doctor.
There were a lot of people waiting to use the telephone.
I don't like the college break times, because I must wait 15 minutes.
used to say how excited you are about something that you are going to do
I can't wait to see him.
I can't wait to see you!
to be late so that someone has to wait for you
I'm sorry to have kept you waiting.
The dentist kept me waiting for ages.
I'm sorry for keeping you waiting.
said in order to interrupt someone, or to get their attention or when you have suddenly thought of something important
Now, wait a moment - I don't agree with that.
Wait a minute - I've just had an idea.
Oh! Wait a minute...
to wait to discover what will happen
We'll wait and see what she says.
We will just have to wait and see.....
to not do something until something else happens
We'll wait till Jane gets here before we start eating.
The wedding will be at midday, but because Spanish people are the most unpunctual people in the world, maybe we'll have to wait until half past twelve to start the ceremony.
when you stay in one place until someone or something arrives, or someone or something is ready for you
a long wait
well worth the wait
We had a three-hour wait before we could see the doctor.
The long wait for the doctor/to see the doctor really made me anxious.
a man who works in a restaurant, bringing food to customers
The waiter brought our drinks.
The waiter and waitress working there are kind and friendly.
a woman who works in a restaurant, bringing food to customers
She's working as a waitress at the moment.
She is a waitress and she likes this job.
to stop sleeping or to make someone else stop sleeping
Please wake me early tomorrow.
Hey Dan, I didn't want to wake you, that's why I left this note.
to move forward by putting one foot in front of the other and then repeating the action
I walked home.
A cat was walking along the top of the fence.
He walks two kilometres to work every morning.
I like to walk by the River Exe.
to walk with someone in order to guide them or keep them safe
He walked me to my house.
Then we went to the bar beside the restaurant to have a last drink and he walked me home.
to walk with a dog to give the dog exercise
I walk the dog twice a day.
Well, I suppose in my opinion you should walk the dog three times a day.
a journey that you make by walking, often for enjoyment
He had/went for/took a walk, to get some air.
Every afternoon she takes her grandad out for a walk.
After dinner we watch television, and sometimes we go for a walk.
a journey that takes a short time/ten minutes, etc. when you walk
The station is just a five-minute walk from the house.
A fifteen-minute walk was necessary to reach it and there were no neighbours around.
a path or route where people can walk for enjoyment
There are some lovely walks in the forest.
The walk ends in Valli del Natisone, but from here there are 2 other different routes that can be chosen.
someone who walks for exercise or enjoyment
This pub is popular with walkers.
If you are a keen walker and you like unspoilt nature, the walk between Granna and Tranas in the South of Sweden will be the one.
the activity of going for a walk, especially for pleasure in the countryside
We're going walking in Wales for a week.
a pair of walking boots
My hobbies are swimming, walking, running and playing football.
a vertical structure, often made of stone or brick, that divides or surrounds something
The walls in this apartment are so thin you can hear just about every word the neighbours say.
The walls look a bit bare - can't we put some pictures up?
We had to climb over a ten-foot wall to get into the garden.
The Berlin Wall came down in 1989.
We will paint the wall orange.
a small folding case for carrying paper money and credit cards, used especially by men
Have you seen my wallet anywhere?
He pulled out a big fat wallet stuffed with notes.
I think I have left my wallet in your house.
to walk around slowly in a relaxed way or without any clear purpose or direction
We spent the morning wandering around the old part of the city.
He was here a moment ago but he's wandered off somewhere.
If you can't afford it you can just wander around the city and enjoy meeting people.
If someone's attention/mind, etc. wanders, they start thinking about one subject when they should be thinking about a different subject.
I was bored and my thoughts started to wander.
His mind kept wandering off and he always found himself dreaming of her beautiful blue eyes, her long, dark eye-lashes and her soft, curled hair.
to hope to have or do something, or to wish for something
I want some chocolate.
She wants a word with you.
What do you want to eat?
Do you want me to take you to the station?
I just wanted to write a letter to you.
armed fighting between two or more countries or groups, or a particular example of this
nuclear war
civil war
a war film/grave/hero
If this country goes to war we will have to face the fact that many people will die.
Britain and France declared war on Germany in 1939.
War broke out between the two countries after a border dispute.
They've been at war for the last five years.
It was built by the British during the war.
an attempt to stop something bad or illegal
the war against crime/drugs
Some years ago, she had given an interview on a local channel, explaining why she chose to devote herself to the war against the destruction of the environment.
a room or area in a hospital, where people receiving treatment stay
She's in a ward on the fourth floor.
I spent two days alone in a ward in Biarritz's hospital.
a large cupboard for keeping clothes in
She was showing me her new built-in/fitted wardrobes.
I want to sell a wooden wardrobe, because I've bought a new one.
all the clothes that you own
She has an extensive wardrobe.
Our wardrobe seemed to have changed from neutral colours which symbolised no freedom of expression to purple-green outfits that tell you: ".. that's me, if you don't like it, get...".
a large building for storing goods that are going to be sold
We have several thousand of the books in our warehouse.
Whether we sit hunched over our computers, telework in the dim light of a reading lamp at home or perform physical jobs in a warehouse, we are surrounded by numbers of colleagues.
having a temperature between cool and hot
Are you warm enough or do you want the fire on?
I've got my hands in my pockets to keep them warm.
I like to go surfing there because the water is warm.
describes clothes and covers made of a material that keeps you warm
I don't have a warm winter coat.
Those gloves look nice and warm.
Remember you should wear warm clothes.
friendly and loving
They're a very warm family.
He has a lovely warm smile.
I'd like to give a warm welcome to our guests this evening.
He is warm and friendly.
to become warm or make something become warm
You're so cold - come and warm your hands by the fire.
Your supper's just warming through in the oven.
We can warm (up) the room quite quickly with this electric fire.
After they saved me, I put those gloves on to warm my hands.
in a way that keeps you warm
You're not dressed warmly enough - put a sweater on.
in a friendly or loving way
He shook my hand warmly.
He embraced me warmly and whispered 'You wouldn't have believed me.'
the heat that is produced by something
I've put a T-shirt on under my sweater for extra warmth.
We lay down on the sand enjoying the warmth of the sun and listening to the birds.
a friendly and loving quality in someone or something
I still remember the warmth of their welcome.
They gave us so much when we were children, their love and their warmth, and now it is up to us to stay with them and give back the love we received.
to make someone realise a possible danger or problem, especially one in the future
We were warned not to eat the fish.
Have you warned them (that) there will be an extra person for dinner?
I was warned against/off going to the east coast because it was so full of tourists.
This particular curry is extremely hot - be warned!
Put that ball down and come over here, Laura - I'm warning you!
I tried to warn him that there would be a lot of people looking at him.
something that tells or shows you that something bad may happen
There's a warning on the cigarette packet that says 'Tobacco seriously damages health'.
The bombs fell completely without warning.
Just a word of warning - restaurants in this area can be very expensive.
The government have today issued a warning about the dangers of sunbathing.
Without any warning he pushed me.
a person who has experience and skill in fighting in a war, especially in the past
These warriors used spears made from iron.
It is true that the Vikings were warriors, some would say bloodthirsty as well, but that is something I will leave to you to judge.
If you are wary of someone or something, you do not trust them completely.
She's still wary of strangers.
Therefore, I strongly believe that consumers should be wary of "pots of gold" and promises made in vain. They should trust solely in what their doctors recommend for each specific case.
to clean something using water
wash your hair/hands
wash the car/clothes/floor
These sheets need washing.
I'll wash the bottle out and use it again.
We can wash cars to earn some money for the necessary materials.
to clean yourself, or a part of yourself, with water and usually soap
I'd like to wash before dinner.
I suppose they are in your bathroom, I put them there before I washed.
when you wash something or a part of your body
Those curtains need a wash.
Erik needed a good wash after playing in the garden.
a machine for washing clothes, sheets and other things made of cloth
Could you empty/load the washing machine, please?
I've left my mobile phone on your washing machine.
when you wash the dishes, pans, and other things you have used for cooking and eating a meal
Mick was doing the washing-up.
I can do the washing-up and cooking.
a black and yellow flying insect that can sting you
There's a wasps' nest in that old tree.
a wasp sting
We were sitting in the garden and suddenly a wasp entered my T-shirt.
an unnecessary or wrong use of money, substances, time, energy, abilities, etc.
That meeting achieved absolutely nothing - it was a complete waste of time.
She's been unemployed for two years and it's such a waste of her talents.
This food mixer's been a total waste of money - we never use it.
I don't watch much television because I think it's a waste of time.
unwanted matter or material of any type, often that which is left after useful substances or parts have been removed
Britain produces 20 million tonnes of household waste each year.
He opposes any kind of nuclear waste being dumped at sea.
Oil spills are common, as is the dumping of toxic waste.
What I did to get it was send them an article based on some possible solutions to the problem of nuclear waste in my local area.
Waste material is no longer needed and can be got rid of.
The Japanese recycle more than half of their waste paper.
In addition, some waste materials are carried to the incinerator where they are burnt completely at very high temperatures.
to use too much of something or use something badly when there is a limited amount of it
You waste a lot of water by having a bath instead of a shower.
Come on, let's get started - we've wasted enough time already.
Don't waste your money on me, love, keep it for yourself.
It's nice to hear that you want to go to Colombia and I'm really happy because I can tell you all the details so you won't waste time and money.
to be clever or of high quality in a way that someone will not understand or enjoy
Good coffee is wasted on Joe - he prefers instant.
Many older people can be heard grumbling that youth is wasted on the young, and I can see their point, though obviously I don't agree.
to look at something for a period of time
I had dinner and watched TV for a couple of hours.
I watched him get into a taxi.
I got the feeling I was being watched.
I sit by the window and watch people walking past.
She works at the Glade and she watches television at night.
to be careful about something
I have to watch my weight now I'm not doing so much sport.
Watch how you cross the road!
Watch (that) you don't get glue on your fingers, won't you?
Watch what you're doing with that knife, Jim, it's sharp.
The odd glass of wine is fine but watch what you eat.
a small clock which is worn on a strap around the wrist
My watch seems to have stopped - it says 10:15 but I'm sure it must be later.
He glanced nervously at his watch.
I got 2 watches, flowers and some dresses.
the clear liquid which falls from the sky as rain and is necessary for animal and plant life
hot/cold water
a bottle/drink/glass of water
bottled/mineral/tap water
Can I have a drop of water in my whisky, please?
You have to bring some food, and a lot of water.
an area of water, such as the sea, a lake or a swimming pool
The water's much warmer today - are you coming for a swim?
Dad, I swam a whole length of the pool under water!
There are a lot of beautiful beaches with clean water.
If a place has running water, it has a working water system.
They bought an old house with no electricity or running water.
It is hilarious to think that at the same time people in the north of Europe were still living a primitive and uncivilized life not even able to invent an axe, the Romans managed to install running water in their huge houses.
If criticisms, insults, etc. are like water off a duck's back to you, they do not affect you at all.
She calls him lazy and useless, but it's like water off a duck's back.
The main lesson I have learned is by looking at some people who have lived alone for most of their life and faced with neither contradiction nor argument, they stay in their ivory tower, so sure of their opinions that whatever you say is like water off a duck's back.
If you say that an argument doesn't hold water, you mean that it can't possibly be true.
I'm sorry, but what you are suggesting just doesn't hold water!
It remains to us to prove that the opinions of some scientists are far-fetched and don't hold water.
water from lakes, rivers, etc. that has no salt in it
These fish live in fresh water.
You find stunning white beaches, clear, fresh water lakes, isolated tropic islands, reef, rainforests, buzzing cities, challenging mountain range, bush, outback - and the desert.
to have just enough money to live or to continue a business
With extra income from private sponsorship, the club is just about managing to keep its head above water.
I also started to realise how much she had on her plate, how very little help she had and how, at times, she had to struggle just like me to keep her head above water.
to pour water on to plants or the soil that they are growing in
I've asked my neighbour to water the plants while I'm away.
I cleaned the flat every day and watered your flowers.
If food makes your mouth water, it makes you want to eat it, sometimes making your mouth produce liquid.
The smells from the kitchen are making my mouth water.
water, especially from a river or stream, dropping from a higher to a lower point, sometimes from a great height
We walked for an hour and arrived at the waterfall.
not allowing water to go through
Canvas boots are all right but they're not as waterproof as leather.
Probably warm jumpers and a waterproof coat would do, don't you think so?
to raise your hand and move it from side to side in order to attract someone's attention or to say goodbye
I waved to/at him from the window but he didn't see me.
She was so annoyed she wouldn't even wave us goodbye/wave goodbye to us.
She waves her hands about/around a lot when she's talking.
She waved at me and I smiled.
to move from side to side in the air or make something move this way
The long grass waved in the breeze.
He started waving his arms about wildly.
I can picture myself standing in front of the "Casa Prosada", waving my arms and cheering with all the other patriots.
a line of higher water which moves across the surface of an area of water, especially the sea
At night, I listened to the sound of the waves breaking/crashing against the shore.
I already know you surf and the waves at Reserva will be huge this weekend so we will surely surf together.
the pattern in which some types of energy, such as sound, light and heat, are spread or carried
radio waves
Indeed, it is thought that using a mobile phone may cause brain damage owing to magnetic waves.
a group of people or things that arrive or happen together or in a short period of time
There has been a wave of kidnappings in the region.
Another wave of refugees is arriving at the border.
These people, who belong mostly to the middle class, and some others like explorers ... or youngsters seeking some adventure, produce the big wave of tourists to different countries.
when you suddenly feel an emotion
She felt a sudden wave of sadness.
As he counted the money, a wave of shame and horror hit Berthold.
to cause problems by asking difficult questions or criticizing
He has earned a reputation for making waves during political campaigns.
If we don't want to regret anything, it is time we started to make waves by scrutinizing our history.
when you raise your hand and move it from side to side in order to attract someone's attention or say goodbye
She gave a little wave as the train left.
And as with a wave of a magic hand, everything changed.
If two people are on the same wavelength, they have the same way of thinking and it is easy for them to understand each other.
We chatted occasionally, but I never really felt we were on the same wavelength.
We were on the same wavelength and we therefore started our own research.
how you do something
There are many ways of solving the problem.
That's not the way to do it - let me show you.
That method hasn't worked, so let's try your way.
I think it's the best way to relax.
the route you take to get from one place to another
Do you know the way to the train station?
I've only been living in Madrid for a couple of weeks so I don't really know my way around it yet.
We'll have to stop for fuel on the way to the airport.
Can you find your own way out of the building?
The coach stopped for us to eat lunch but within half an hour we were on our way again.
There's no way through the centre of town in a vehicle - it's for pedestrians only.
Many people have lost their way in the forest.
Only a local person could find their way through the narrow streets of the old town.
The shortest way to get there is going along Sarmiento Avenue.
used when you say something new or on a different subject
I think we've discussed everything we need to - by the way, what time is it?
Oh, by the way, my name's Julie.
By the way, I want to buy a raincoat for my brother.
the direction in which something is facing or travels
"Which way does the room face?" "North."
This bus is going the wrong way.
Which way up should this box be?
The numbers are the wrong way round - it should be 71, not 17.
Although he had told us he knew this address, he went the wrong way.
a distance or a period of time
We walked a long way yesterday.
The holidays seem like they're a long way away/off.
I like this best because it is not a long way from home.
used to tell someone that something is impossible
I'm sorry but there's no way we can help you.
No way will she agree to you leaving early.
Don't worry, there is no way I'm going to miss it!
the manner in which a person lives
She told us all about her way of life in Japan.
He told me about his hobbies, his way of life and especially about his love of learning languages.
used to talk about two possibilities where the result will be the same
You can get there by train or bus - either way it'll take an hour.
He might have to resign or he might be given a desk job, but either way, his career is effectively over.
If that doesn't work, you can ask them to talk to your friends' parents so you could all go together. Either way, I know you will have lots of fun this summer.
in some way that is not stated
One way or another these bills have to be paid.
Everyone at the party was related in one way or another.
All of them made a big difference to our personal life and have affected it one way or another.
in any way that is possible
We have to make a decision one way or the other about what needs to be done.
Our transportation system nowadays is also very well organised and there is a wide range of buses, subways, etc. with which you can reach your destination one way or the other.
happening in the opposite way
I thought the older people would be more offended than the young people, but it was the other way round.
As you know, I did that the other way round for the States.
to get to a place
We slowly made our way down the river.
It's getting late - we should make our way home soon.
She made her way slowly to the waiting room and patiently waited for the train to arrive.
the complete distance
They cycled all the way to London.
I drove all the way to Bergen in only one day.
used to say that you think something is partly true
In a way, I would prefer it if they didn't come because it would mean extra work.
In some ways it would be better if we met on Monday rather than Wednesday.
He was a remarkable politician in many ways.
I think that many people would like shops to be open all the time, and it might be good in some ways.
the manner in which someone behaves or thinks, or in which something happens
Don't be alarmed - it's just his way.
He looked at me in a sinister way.
It's amazing the way she manages to stay so calm.
The way he was shouting, you'd have thought he was badly hurt.
To my way of thinking, they shouldn't be building so many roads.
It's always the way at work - either I've got nothing to do or I'm rushed off my feet!
To my way of thinking, despite all the problems I have mentioned, this company will succeed.
not at all
This is in no way your fault.
This magazine will be loved by students as it will help them learn English in the best way and in no way will students find it boring.
as a type of something
He sent me some flowers by way of apology.
The Academy however provided nothing whatsoever by way of entertainment, though with a group of interesting young people and a little imagination this should not be a problem.
to get what you want, although it might upset other people
She always gets her own way in the end.
They are provided with what they desire, and the majority of them are used to getting their own way.
to do what is easiest in a difficult situation
I know you don't approve of his working methods, but why not take the easy way out this time and agree to his request?
On the other hand you cannot survive without your pay-check and to be able to both make a career and have the time to be green, sometimes you just have to take the easy way out.
the space needed for a particular movement or action
"Sorry, am I in your way? I'll move."
If you don't move that vase out of the way, it might get broken.
Don't let your new friends get in the way of your studies.
I couldn't see the stage because there was a pillar in the way.
Please make way so the ambulance can get by.
As Mark Twain once said "Don't let school get in the way of your education".
to be successful and make progress in your work
He managed to make his way in the film industry.
For each one of the famous sportsmen we recognise on television or in the newspapers, there are thousands of hopeful youngsters trying to make their way to the top.
to try very hard to do something pleasant for someone
He went out of his way to make us feel welcome.
to finish a task or to get rid of something unpleasant
I'll go shopping when I've got this essay out of the way.
It was a joyful reunion and everybody was grateful to have all misunderstandings out of the way and to be one big family once more.
used to say that someone or something does something to a large degree
They celebrate birthdays in a big way.
Tourism helps Greece's national economy - which is not at its best - in a big way.
to be already happening
Building work is already under way.
Sociologists are well-aware of the fact and experiments are under way to counterbalance these disadvantages.
to change into something else
Her excitement quickly gave way to horror.
This friendship gave way to love, but it was a really difficult situation, after all she was the Managing Director's daughter.
If something gives way, it falls because it is not strong enough to support the weight on top of it.
Suddenly the ground gave way under me.
Fred's voice trailed off as he felt his legs give way beneath him.
to be replaced by someone or something
They knocked down the old houses to make way for a new hotel.
In the UK most high-streets already look very much the same and the local shops had to make way for big conglomerates.
If something paves the way for something else, it makes the other thing possible.
Scientists hope that data from the probe will pave the way for a more detailed exploration of Mars.
Many celebrities engage actively in UN projects and pave the way for others to contribute.
to do or learn something by experiencing a lot of problems or difficulty
I learned the hard way that training every single day is not the best way to get fit.
If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
to move carefully through a crowded place, changing direction in order to avoid people or things
She threaded her way through the crowd.
And if I thread my way through the crowd along the street, I can find almost all things I want to buy, from inexpensive souvenirs to internationally known brands of suits.
used as the subject of the verb to refer to the speaker and at least one other person when considered together or as a group
Can we all go to the swimming pool this afternoon?
If you don't hurry up we'll be late.
After dinner we want to go shopping.
used to refer to people generally
The world in which we live today is very different.
Why can't we live without computers?
not physically strong
It's not surprising you feel weak if you haven't eaten properly for days.
I felt so weak that I wasn't able to tidy and wash up.
not good at something
She reads well but her spelling is weak.
Listening is my weak point so I have to improve.
not powerful, or not having a strong character
a weak leader/government/king
At the beginning of the story, Mary seemed to be a weak person, but in the end she demonstrated that she could overcome her fears in order to protect someone.
containing little taste or alcohol
weak coffee/beer
How do you like your tea - strong or weak?
difficult to see or hear
He spoke in a weak voice.
I could hardly see with the weak light of the candle and I couldn't remember the last time I had used it.
A weak reason, argument or excuse is one that can easily be proved to be false.
He gave the weakest of excuses when asked why he was late.
likely to fail
a weak economy
a weak team
A very difficult aspect currently is our weak economy, we could nearly speak of a recession.
to become less strong or powerful, or to make someone or something less strong or powerful
A number of factors have weakened the economy.
If we get rid of the factories to save the river, it is obvious that our economy will be weakened.
to become less certain or determined about a decision, or to make someone less determined
I told him he wasn't having any more money but then I weakened.
I felt my resistance weaken and at the end of our conversation I said that she could come over for a night but just this night, as I tried to make it very clear to her.
when someone or something is not strong or powerful
Asking for help is not a sign of weakness.
I believe that I'll be able to cover my physical weakness with my experience and knowledge.
a particular part or quality of someone or something that is not good or effective
There are definite weaknesses in their security arrangements.
His main weakness as a manager is his inability to delegate.
The later novels show none of the weaknesses of his earlier work.
However, I have to complain about a few weaknesses in this festival.
to like a particular thing or person very much
She has a real weakness for ice cream.
a large amount of money or valuable possessions that someone has
During a successful business career, she accumulated a great amount of wealth.
On the other hand, having a mobile phone can also create social distinctions between people as it can be a sign of wealth.
a large amount of something good
a wealth of experience/information
One of the advantages often mentioned is that old people have a wealth of experience, gained throughout life.
rich
He's a very wealthy man.
With its natural resources it is potentially a very wealthy country.
But how can anyone satisfy a wealthy woman like her without giving her an expensive present?
any object used in fighting or war, such as a gun, bomb, sword, etc.
chemical/nuclear/biological weapons
The youths were dragged from their car and searched for weapons.
Technology is used to create new types of weapons.
to have clothing, jewellery, etc. on your body
Tracey is wearing a simple black dress.
What are you wearing to Caroline's wedding?
Some musicians don't like to wear rings when they're playing.
He wears glasses for reading.
She wears very little make-up.
She likes to wear new clothes.
to arrange or grow your hair in a particular way
She usually wears her hair in a ponytail.
I now wear my long hair loose and I dyed it black.
to show a particular emotion on your face.
He was wearing a smile/frown.
She was wearing a big smile on her face that reflected happiness.
If a feeling or explanation starts to wear thin, it becomes weaker or harder to accept.
I've warned you several times about being late and my patience is wearing thin.
Hardly could they fight against others, when their own convictions had started to wear thin.
very tired
You look weary, my love.
On the other hand, if we choose to sleep, it means that we are willing to inject some power in our weary bodies and minds.
bored with something or someone
She grew weary of the children and their games.
The young man was getting weary of being rejected like this, but he was still hoping that she would open her heart to him some day.
the conditions in the air above the Earth such as wind, rain or temperature, especially at a particular time over a particular area
bad/good/cold/dry/hot/stormy/warm/wet weather
The weather in the hills can change very quickly, so take suitable clothing.
We're going to have a picnic, weather permitting.
I need it because the weather is cold.
to feel ill
I'm feeling a bit under the weather this morning.
Ann was a bit under the weather, and she felt quite lonely in her big flat.
a description of what the weather will be like
Have you heard the weather forecast for tomorrow?
The weather forecast is not so good for the next two days: rain and wind.
the connected pages on the Internet, which you can search to find particular information
Jane's been surfing the Web all morning.
You can find the advertisement on the web, on the official website: www.luna@.it.
a type of net made by a spider to catch insects
a spider's web
On the way coming back to the hotel I almost got lost because the underground was like a spider's web.
a camera that records moving pictures and sounds and allows these to be shown on the Internet as they happen
I see my grandchildren via the webcam.
a part of a website that can be read on a computer screen
There is a web page with this information.
You can find the art class information on her web page.
a set of pages of information on the Internet about a particular subject, which have been published by the same person or organization, and often contain colour pictures, video and sound
For more information about other Cambridge titles, visit our website at www.cambridge.org.
If you want more information or you want to see photos of the art class, visit our website: www.artclass.com.
a marriage ceremony and any celebrations such as a meal or a party that follow it
a wedding cake/dress/invitation/present/reception
Do you know the date of Cathy and Matthew's wedding?
It was their twenty-fifth wedding anniversary last week.
Some couples prefer to have a traditional wedding in an old village.
the day of the week after Tuesday and before Thursday
Did you say the meeting is on Wednesday?
The restaurant is always closed on Wednesdays.
Wednesday would be a good day for us to go running.
I come to college every Monday and Wednesday.
a wild plant that you do not want to grow in your garden
Dandelions are common weeds.
A loose shutter was tapping against the wall, he walked over to close it and from the window he saw the garden overgrown with weeds.
a period of seven days
last/this/next week
We go to the cinema about once/twice a week.
Don't do any sport for a week or two.
She visits her parents once a week.
the five days from Monday to Friday when people usually go to work or school
I don't go out much during the week.
I work in the week but you could come at the weekend.
one of the five days from Monday to Friday when people usually go to work or school
This road is very busy on weekdays.
I can write at the weekends, because I have no time on weekdays.
Saturday and Sunday, or Friday evening until Sunday night; the part of the week when many people do not work
Have you got anything planned for the weekend?
This/Next weekend we're going to see some friends.
At the weekends she goes to visit her parents.
happening once a week or every week
a weekly magazine/report
a twice-weekly meeting
The fire alarm has a weekly test/is tested weekly.
I also read magazines and newspapers to get information about daily and weekly events.
to cry, usually because you are sad
She covered her face with her hands and wept.
Still weeping, Mary felt a tiny little hand on her arm and stared at it in astonishment.
to have a heaviness of a stated amount, or to measure the heaviness of an object
How much do you weigh?
She weighs herself every week on the scales in the bathroom.
Your luggage must be weighed before it is put on the aircraft.
You can see monkeys that weigh only 100g.
to consider something carefully, especially in order to make a decision
He needs to weigh up the pros and cons of going to college.
Having weighed the pros and cons, I thought you ought to be conscious of the fact that... you're working too hard.
the amount that something or someone weighs
He's about average height and weight.
I need to lose a bit of weight.
Graham's put on a lot of weight recently.
These drugs can cause patients to gain weight.
So let me describe Fabian: he has brown hair and his weight is about 75 kg.
the quality of being heavy
The shelf collapsed under the weight of the books.
The weight of the snow broke the branches of the trees.
something that is heavy
Try not to lift heavy weights.
I lift weights twice a week at the gym.
... my long training periods in lifting weights.
to work as hard as other people in a group
The rest of the team complained that Sarah wasn't pulling her weight.
For instance, before your kin get all nice and comfortable, you could ask them to pull their weight around the house by doing a few jobs.
to be considered important and effective in influencing someone
His opinions carry a lot of weight with the scientific community.
It has become increasingly important to strive for near perfection in every move they make, the pursuit of excellence therefore carrying more weight than ever and leading to strenuous training programmes.
very strange and unusual, unexpected or not natural
Her boyfriend's a bit weird but she's all right.
That's weird - I thought I'd left my keys on the table but they're not there.
There is nothing to rival the weird and wonderful things that come out on the streets at carnival time.
She was hearing all sorts of weird noises.
said as a greeting to someone arriving at a place
Welcome - please come in.
Welcome home/back - we've missed you!
Welcome to Cambridge.
Wendy, welcome to my town.
to greet someone who has arrived in a place
Both families were there to welcome us.
The visitors to the college were warmly welcomed by the principal.
Everyone welcomed us to their village.
to be pleased about something and encourage or support it
The decision has been widely welcomed.
I would welcome your advice.
The time will arrive when all of us will accept and welcome this "beautiful machine"! the computer
said as a polite answer when someone thanks you for doing something
"It was very kind of you to help." "You're welcome."
If you are welcome, people are pleased that you are there.
You will always be welcome here.
She makes us (feel) welcome whenever we visit her.
You know that you are very welcome in my country.
used to tell someone that they can certainly do something, if they want to
Anyone who is interested is welcome to come along.
You're very welcome to join too if you want.
If something is welcome, people are pleased about it and want it to happen.
a welcome change
Your comments are always welcome.
And, since all these new things only make our life easier, technology is welcome.
when someone is met and spoken to in a friendly way when they arrive in a place
They were given a warm welcome.
She referred to his previous visit in her welcome speech.
Dear Bertha, Once again I want to thank you very much for your hospitality and the warm welcome you gave me.
to stay somewhere too long so that people want you to leave
I don't want to outstay my welcome.
The worst thing one can do is to let them know they have outstayed their welcome, that will only make things worse.
Someone's welfare is their health and happiness.
He is concerned about the welfare of young men in prison.
To take care of the visitor's wishes must be a priority: his welfare has to be enforced by structural measures (facilities, services, activities) and cultural ones.
care or money provided by the government for people who are poor, ill, or who do not have jobs
She works in child welfare.
The country's welfare bill is massive.
Living in a welfare state is a great thing, but not all of us are so lucky.
in a successful or satisfactory way
I thought the team played well.
He's doing very well at school.
The shop sells well-made clothes.
They took two hours to discuss the plans and considered it time well spent.
I play guitar very well and I love rock!
used to tell someone how pleased you are about something they have done
"I passed my exam." "Well done!"
also
Are you going to invite Steve as well?
Dylma goes to school every day and works as well.
in addition to
There are soft drinks as well as coffee and tea.
They have lived in the United States as well as Britain.
I like pop as well as country music.
in a complete way or as much as possible
Stir the mixture well.
I know him quite well.
I live in the capital city. ... I know it very well and it will be a pleasure to guide you around.
used to suggest doing something, often when there is nothing better to do
We might as well walk there.
As you already know so much about the subject, you might as well skip this lecture.
In my opinion, you might as well ask your neighbours if they can look after your flat for one day.
used to say that something is likely to be true
She might well be the best person to ask.
He could well be at Michelle's house.
Laura could well imagine that she would stand opposite the examiners and not answer any question in the right way.
used to emphasize some adjectives
The police are well aware of the situation.
The museum is well worth a visit.
Finally I would like to recommend a visit to Lampton Castle; in addition to the paintings and furniture there is now a new collection of musical instruments, which is well worth seeing.
used to emphasize some prepositions
The results are well above/below what we expected.
Keep well away from the edge of the cliff.
It cost well over £100.
The hospital received well over 80% of the profits, and that as you can see is much more than just 60%.
If you may/might as well do something, it will not spoil the situation if you do that thing.
If we're not waiting for Karen, we might as well go now.
I might as well go with her and if you like, you can join us too.
used to say that it is lucky that something happened
It's just as well we brought an umbrella.
It is just as well that my friends had cars to give me a lift to the school.
used to say that something is not a suitable or practical thing to do
I couldn't very well tell her while he was there.
I couldn't very well tell her that without my diaries, I'd be lost and not know who I was.
to intend to behave in a kind way
I know my parents mean well, but I wish they wouldn't interfere.
Although these fans might mean well, in many cases they do not appear to realise that their 'heroes' perhaps would like to be left alone.
healthy; not ill
You look well! - Thanks, I feel well.
He hasn't been too well lately.
When she came home from school she really didn't look well.
I'm sorry you're ill - I hope you get well soon.
How are you? I'm very well.
everything is in a good or acceptable state
I hope all is well with Jack.
I hope all's well.
used to say that it is lucky that something happened
It's just as well we brought an umbrella.
It is just as well that my friends had cars to give me a lift to the school.
used to show that you do not agree with something or that you are annoyed about something
It's all very well for her to say everything's fine, she doesn't have to live here.
That's all very well for most of the people but according to my desires it's not enough. I envisage a more sophisticated flat.
used at the beginning of a sentence to pause slightly or to express doubt or disagreement
You'll go, won't you? - Well, I'm not sure.
Well, what shall we do now?
Who was that? - Well, I'm afraid I can't remember her name.
Well, after that we went camping in the mountains.
Well, my friend, I have just seen this film but I can see it again.
used to say that a situation cannot be changed although it might be disappointing
Oh well, it doesn't matter, I can always buy another one.
I always dreamed of going sailing, but not even a little boat is left, some other people have already booked them! Oh well.
A well-balanced diet or meal includes all the different types of food that the body needs to be healthy.
I try to have a well-balanced diet.
So my advice for you would be to try and have some break times during the day, do some sports and follow a well-balanced diet.
Well-balanced people are calm and have good judgment.
She's very well-balanced considering her past.
Linda has a good temper, is well-balanced and is able to cope with unforeseen or complicated situations.
when someone is healthy, happy, and comfortable
I found that yoga increased my sense of well-being.
The beautiful countryside which surrounds the fields can generate a feeling of well-being and make exercise more pleasant.
having a large, strong body
He was a well-built man, in his forties.
When I was twenty three years old, I was married to a handsome, well-built business man.
wearing attractive, good-quality clothes
She is a very well-dressed woman.
It is a party for the students who take part in the conference, so you do not need to be well-dressed.
having had a good education
We have some very well-educated employees in the department.
Most of our employees are pretty well educated.
Increasing numbers of well-educated young people are compelled to stay at home.
having plenty of good quality equipment
He has a very well-equipped kitchen.
There is a well-equipped gym which is supervised by experienced staff.
knowing a lot of useful information
Some visitors to our museum are very well-informed.
In fact, well-informed teenagers are now aware of the necessity to do a sport to stay fit.
famous
a well-known actor/artist/film star/singer
a well-known face/voice
I would like to suggest we invite some well-known artists to next year's festival.
having a lot of money
His parents are very well-off.
If you belong to a well-off family then you are considered lucky, but if you are not this, good luck to you.
working in an effective and successful way because of good organization
She's always extremely well-organized at work.
In my opinion it was a very well-organised festival with good performers.
earning a lot of money
a well-paid job
She had an interesting and well-paid job in Paris as a fashion model.
having suitable experience or formal qualifications
He seems well-qualified for the job.
That is why foreign employers look for well-qualified Polish specialists.
the direction that you face to see the sun go down
The points of the compass are North, South, East and West.
The sun rises in the east and sets in the west.
the part of an area that is further towards the west than the rest
We live in the west of the city.
Most of the country will be dry tomorrow, but the west will have some rain.
It is situated in the west of the town and it is near the sea.
the countries of North America and western Europe
There has been concern in/throughout the West about the effects of this measure.
East-West relations
in or forming the west part of something
the west coast of Ireland
They come from west London.
I most enjoyed Bergen, which is on the west coast of Norway.
towards the west
We travelled west.
They live in a village four miles west of Oxford.
in or from the west part of an area
western Europe
California and other western states
It is in the western part of Kyoto.
relating to countries in the west part of the world, especially North America and countries in the west of Europe
western opinion/culture
a Western-educated engineer
western medicine
Nowadays, most young people would like to wear suits and dresses like Westerners because, they're more interested in western culture.
covered in water or another liquid
a wet floor
a wet umbrella
wet hair
My bike got wet in the rain.
I had to cycle in the rain and got soaking wet.
You poor thing - you're all wet.
Yesterday I was at the swimming pool and I got out with wet hair.
describes weather or periods of time when rain falls
We've had wet weather all week.
This is the first wet day for two months.
The presentation will take place indoors if it's wet.
The last thing I bought was a jacket because of the cold and wet weather here.
describes paint, ink, or a similar substance when it has not had time to dry and become hard
The paint's still wet.
a sign saying 'Wet paint!'
a very large sea mammal that breathes air through a hole at the top of its head
One month ago I saw a programme about whales that are fished near Japan.
used to ask for information about something
What did you wear?
What happened after I left?
What caused the accident?
What do you think about that?
used when suggesting or offering something to someone
What about a trip to the zoo this afternoon?
"Coffee, Sarah?" "No, thanks." "What about you, Kate?"
When can we meet? What about next week?
What about getting a pizza?
What about Lola - shall we invite her?
I would love to see the film. What about Friday?
used to refer to something without naming it
Do you know what I mean?
She wouldn't tell me what he said.
What I like most about her is her honesty.
The letter showed clearly what they were planning.
I can't decide what to do next.
Have you thought about what to send as a present?
I don't know what to do now.
used to ask for someone's opinion on a particular subject
What about Ava - is she nice?
I also enjoy shopping for shoes, what about you?
used to ask about something that could happen in the future, especially something bad
What if the train's late?
What if you don't pass your exams?
What if the children were in trouble?
used to ask how things are with someone
What's up? Nice to see you again.
Hi Teresa What's up? I am good.
used to ask about the reason for something
What are these tools for?
What are you doing that for?
"We need a bigger car." "What for?"
People love spending hours in their stuffy cars, getting stuck in traffic jams and breathing polluted air. What for?
used to add something surprising or interesting to what you have just said
They turned up nearly an hour late, and what's more, they didn't bring anything!
What is more, I will have an opportunity to visit the most exotic countries.
used to talk about the reasons for a particular situation, especially a bad or difficult situation
I'm tired, what with travelling all day yesterday and sleeping badly.
The energy of a crowd like that is amazing, what with people jumping up and down, singing their lungs out and pushing each other around.
used to ask for information about something
What time is it?
What books did you buy?
What size shoes do you take?
What time would you like to come?
used to give your opinion, especially when you have strong feelings about something
What rubbish!
What a mess!
What an awful day!
Last Saturday we decided to watch the film "Pinocchio" by Roberto Benigni. What a beautiful soundtrack! What an interesting fable!
anything or everything
The children are allowed to do whatever they want.
I eat whatever I want and I still don't seem to gain weight.
Whatever I say I always seem to get it wrong.
I think people should wear whatever they want to.
used to say that what happens is not important because it does not change a situation
Whatever happens, you know that I'll stand by you.
Whatever you decide, I hope you enjoy a wonderful summer.
or other things of the same kind
If you need to wash, or whatever, we can meet you later.
used to say that what happens is not important because it does not change a situation
We'll go whatever the weather.
Whatever else may be said of him, Mr. Meese is not scared of a fight.
But whatever the reason, most people who move from one region to another are under 35 years old.
Whatever you decide, I hope you enjoy a wonderful summer.
none at all
There's no evidence whatsoever that she was involved.
Moreover, the hotel we were finally dumped in was situated miles from Edinburgh city centre and there was no entertainment whatsoever arranged for the evening, even though all the travellers were more or less stuck there.
a plant whose yellowish brown grain is used for making flour, or the grain itself
wheat fields
Wheat is an important crop for millions of people across the world.
In the painting, a man and woman are sleeping in a wheat field.
a circular object fixed under a vehicle so that it moves smoothly over the ground
My bike needs a new wheel.
He lost control of his car when the front/rear wheel hit a rock.
I ride my bicycle every day, but now its front wheel is broken.
a steering wheel
You should keep both hands on the wheel when driving.
On the continent Barbara and I took turns at the wheel and early next morning we reached the Spanish border.
a chair with wheels used by someone who cannot walk
My brother uses a wheelchair.
In the hospital, I was sentenced to be confined to a wheelchair for the rest of my life.
used to ask at what time something happened or will happen
"I did tell you about it." "When? I don't remember."
When's your birthday?
When did he leave?
When are you coming to my house?
used to say at what time something happened or will happen
I found it when I was cleaning out the cupboards.
We'll go when you're ready.
She was only twenty when she had her first baby.
He was quite shocked when I told him.
I'll ring you when I arrive.
used to say something that is surprising after what has already been said
He says he hasn't got any money when in fact he's got thousands of dollars in his account.
I don't understand how he can say that everything's fine when it's so obvious that it's not.
Why is she training to be a teacher when she doesn't even like children?
How can you say you don't like something when you've never even tried it!
In your advertisement it was said that I would find stars and artists from around the world, when, in fact, they were from only six countries.
used to introduce a new idea that you want to say something about
When it comes to baking cakes, she's an expert.
But when it comes to computers, they just impose some knowledge on students, without any interaction.
every time or any time
Whenever I go there they seem to be out.
I read whenever I can, specially at night.
every time it is possible
I try to use olive oil whenever possible.
My friends have always regarded me as a cheerful, active girl, who is glad to help out whenever possible.
every time or any time
"Will it be okay if I do it tomorrow?" "Sure, whenever."
Do it in a spare moment at the weekend or whenever - it really doesn't matter.
used to ask about the place or position of someone or something
Where does he live?
Where are my car keys?
"I put them on your desk." "Where? I can't see them."
Where did you put my umbrella?
Where is the college?
what someone thinks about you, how they expect you to behave, and how they are likely to behave
She said she will never leave her husband, so now at least I know where I stand.
what your opinion is about something
We asked the head teacher where he stood on the wearing of jewellery in school.
From where I stand, some action must be taken urgently because the problems are constantly exacerbating.
at, in or to a place or position
I've been meaning to ask you where you get your hair cut.
I like to have him next to me where I can keep an eye on him.
I need to know where I can study French.
used when referring to a particular stage in a process or activity
You reach a point in any project where you just want to get the thing finished.
I've reached the stage where I just don't care anymore.
We've come to a point where we have forgotten how to read or talk to each other.
used to ask in what place or area someone or something is
Whereabouts does he live?
the place where someone or something is
His whereabouts are unknown.
However, his whereabouts have been unknown for 6 years.
compared with the fact that
He must be about sixty, whereas his wife looks about thirty.
For example, it takes two hours by plane from Switzerland to Spain, whereas it takes approximately one day by train.
by which
They've introduced a system whereby people share cars.
Those in favour of separating the genders quote studies whereby boys demonstrate better results in school without the distraction of having the fairer sex around.
in or to any or every place
You can sit wherever you like.
Wherever you choose to live there are always going to be disadvantages.
I will be able to take you wherever you want in a matter of minutes.
every time it is possible
Wherever possible I use honey instead of sugar.
We try to sell local fruit and vegetables wherever possible.
We can work together in a number of ways, for example, we can plant trees wherever possible and we can place bins in the necessary areas which will help the public to dispose of waste items.
used especially in reporting questions and when expressing doubt to mean if
I wasn't sure whether you'd like it.
She asked me whether I was interested in working for her.
I doubt whether it'll work.
It all depends on whether or not she's got the time.
It's very expensive and I'm so broke that I don't know whether I can afford to buy one.
used to talk about a choice between two or more possibilities
I'm going, whether she likes it or not.
Someone's got to tell her, whether it's you or me.
Let's face it - you're going to be late whether you go by bus or train.
I don't know whether to stay or to go.
used to ask or talk about a choice between two or more things
Which jacket do you prefer?
Which time is better for you - 12.15 or 12.45?
I don't know which one to choose.
Which car did he use, the McLaren or the Ferrari?
used to ask or talk about a choice between two or more things
Which of these do you like best?
Which is the best way to the station?
Which are your favourite music bands?
used at the beginning of a relative clause to show what thing is being referred to
These are problems which we all know about.
You know that little Italian restaurant - the one which I mentioned in my letter?
I like to wear clothes which are black or blue.
used to give extra information about something
The book, which includes a map, gives you all the information you need about Budapest.
Turning to the end-of-conference party, it is going to be held in a nearby buffet restaurant, Valentine's, which has good quality food and reasonable prices.
used after a preposition to show what thing is being referred to
Is that the film in which she sings?
The death of his son was an experience from which he never fully recovered.
It isn't a subject to which I devote a great deal of thought.
According to your advertisement in a language magazine you have a vacancy in your campsites, in which I am very interested.
used when you give an opinion or comment about what you have just said
He showed me round the town, which I thought was very kind of him.
I am very interested in being able to help on such a project, which I think is a very good one.
any of a group of similar things
Let's go out on Thursday or Friday - you choose whichever day is best for you.
You can have whichever bedroom you want in the apartment.
The meeting will take place on either the 15th or 22nd February, whichever one suits you best.
used to say that what happens is not important because it does not change a situation
It's going to be expensive whichever way you do it.
Whichever option we choose there'll be disadvantages.
In Japan, there are two major styles of tea. One is Omote and the other is Ura. Both styles have only one top family. Whichever they are, the top family uses a special bowl made by the Raku family.
any of a group of similar things
We can go to the seven o'clock performance or the eight - whichever suits you best.
You can choose whichever of those dates is best for you.
This job in a bookshop is in Central London, and you can choose part-time or full time, whichever you want.
during the time that, or at the same time as
I read it while you were drying your hair.
While I was in Italy, I went to see Alessandro.
I thought I heard him come in while we were having dinner.
"I'm going to the post office." "While you're there, can you get me some stamps?"
My mother gave it to me yesterday evening while I was playing a computer game.
used to compare two different facts or situations
He gets fifty thousand pounds a year while I get only twenty!
Tom is very confident while Katy is shy and quiet.
In Italy, weddings are very traditional! The girls wear a long, white dress, while the boys, normally, wear dark clothes.
despite the fact that; although
While I accept that he's not perfect in many respects, I do actually quite like the man.
While I fully understand your point of view, I do also have some sympathy with Michael's.
While it is true that everyone should have a computer at home because it is useful, on the other hand hardly anybody can afford one.
a length of time
I only stayed for a short while.
You were there a while, weren't you?
"When did that happen?" "Oh, it was a while ago".
After a while, Roberto came back inside.
I haven't seen him for a while.
I'll be fine in a while.
After a while, a girl invited me to play darts with her and her friends.
a long time
I hadn’t seen Rebecca in quite a while.
It took quite a while to clean out the garage.
But although I have what you could call "simple" tastes, it takes me quite a while to decide what to buy.
sometimes but not often
We do go to the beach once in a while.
She did not say very much except for "oh" and "yes, yes" every once in a while.
If it is worth your while doing something, it is useful or enjoyable to do it.
It's worth your while taking out travel insurance before you travel.
It isn't worth my while going all that way just for one day.
It would be worth your while to visit the country's capital Havana, and don't forget to go into the Folklore Museum and Library, the War Museum and the Archeological Museum.
when you suddenly want to do something without having a reason
We booked the holiday on a whim.
He brought her presents and indulged her every whim.
a strong, pale brown alcoholic drink, originally produced in Scotland, that is made from barley
The whisky from the island of Islay is excellent.
We stayed in various small inns, where we met a lot of interesting people, for example an old man from a small village outside Aberdeen who accompanied us to a neighbouring whisky distillery, where a most exquisite malt whisky is produced.
to speak extremely quietly so that other people cannot hear
She leaned over and whispered something in his ear.
What are you two girls whispering about?
"Where are the toilets?" she whispered.
When I went to the school canteen everybody was staring at me and whispering to each other.
to make a sound by breathing air out through a small hole made with your lips, or through a whistle
On the days when she wore a skirt the men on the building site would whistle at her.
Someone was whistling Beatles tunes outside my window.
I stood up and many of my companions clapped their hands, although some of them whistled in a very rude way.
a small, simple instrument that makes a sound when you blow through it
The referee blew his whistle to end the game.
I was so nervous and I was thinking about that scream and those whistles, so I decided to go outside to have a look.
being the colour of snow or milk
a white T-shirt
white walls
a black and white dog
He's white-haired now.
Do not wear white clothes!
White coffee has milk or cream added to it.
Two coffees please, one black and one white.
White wine is a pale yellow colour.
Would you prefer red or white wine?
Please don't bring anything or if you want to, bring one bottle of white wine.
Someone who is white has skin that is pale in colour.
He had a black mother and a white father.
He's described as a white man in his early thirties.
He had just been beaten by a group of white men.
having a pale face because you are ill or you are feeling shocked
He was white with shock.
However, when she opened the door, her face went white.
relating to white people
the white community
As most British in those days, his private life lay in a small circle of the white community.
the colour of snow or milk
In some countries it is traditional for a bride to wear white.
I am going to use the colour white for my bedroom.
used to ask about someone's name or which person or group someone is talking about
Who told you?
Who's that?
Who are all those people?
Who's playing in the match this afternoon?
What did you do at the party? Who was there?
used at the beginning of a relative clause to show which person or group of people you are talking about
That's the man who I saw in the bank.
I think it was your dad who phoned.
He rang James, who was a good friend as well as the family doctor.
It was my mother who gave it to me.
used to give more information about someone
My brother, who's only 17, has already passed his driving test.
The bad guys try to take over the world and the good guys, who are the heroes , try to stop them from doing so.
used to emphasize that you do not think something is important
"Chelsea should have reached the final!" "Who cares?"
"Who cares?" he answered.
the person who
Whoever broke the window will have to pay for it.
Could I speak to whoever is in charge of international sales, please?
I have to admit that whoever invented cars produced the best invention in the world.
used to say that it is not important which person or group does something
Can whoever leaves last please lock up?
You're likely to get the same answer, whoever you ask.
The main advantage is obvious - you can communicate whenever you want with whoever you want and wherever you are.
complete, including every part
I spent the whole day cleaning.
There's still a whole month till my birthday.
After my exercise class, my whole body ached.
The whole town was destroyed by the earthquake.
This whole thing is ridiculous.
Bill does nothing but complain the whole time .
Did you know that almost the whole class came to my party.
all of something
I'll be on holiday the whole of next week.
His behaviour affects the whole of the class.
The whole of the village had come out for the party.
Moreover, you can see the whole of Hong Kong from the Peak.
generally
We've had a few problems, but on the whole we're very happy.
On the whole I don't like watching television.
when considered as a group and not in parts
The population as a whole is getting healthier.
To sum up, I can say that the greatest ever invention is the invention of computers, that has affected both individuals and society as a whole.
as a single object and not in pieces
The baby bird swallowed the worm whole.
in a completely enthusiastic way
I agreed wholeheartedly with what she said.
First of all, I have to say that I agree with you wholeheartedly.
completely
His behaviour is wholly unacceptable.
As far as money is concerned, I think that people who only care about earning lots of money do not wholly understand the question.
used instead of 'who' as the object of a verb or preposition
I met a man with whom I used to work.
There were 500 passengers, of whom 121 drowned.
To whom do you wish to speak?
This is just to let you know with whom I worked.
used to ask who something belongs to or who someone or something is connected to
Whose bag is this?
Whose car shall we use?
Whose fault is it?
used for adding information about a person or thing just mentioned
Cohen, whose contract ends next week, is likely to move to play for a European club.
It was an old house, whose basement had been flooded.
My new friend, whose name is Mark, is my co-worker.
used to ask who something belongs to or who someone or something is connected to
Whose is this bag?
Whose is that book?
used to ask about the reason for something
"I'm going home." "Why?"
Why did you choose to live in London?
Why wait? Let's leave now.
Why couldn't you come?
used to make a suggestion
Why don't you come with us?
Why not give it a try?
Why don't we play tennis?
used to talk about the reason for something
I don't know why she isn't here.
Quite why he isn't here today is a mystery.
There is no reason why we shouldn't succeed.
Also, you didn't say why the photography and painting courses were so popular.
used to agree with something that someone has suggested
"Let's have an ice cream." "Yes, why not?"
She said, I have two tickets for a new film with Tom Cruise - would you like to come with me? Well I said why not, so I went with her to see this film.
extremely bad and morally wrong
a wicked man
They went to great pains to do so, as he was indeed a wicked and cunning man, but he had not counted on Caroline's and James' superior intelligence, and the documents were eventually found in an empty jar in the kitchen.
having a larger distance from one side to the other than is usual or expected
a wide river/road
I'm going to stay here two weeks in a big hotel near a wide river.
having a distance of 5 miles/10 metres, etc. from one side to the other
The swimming pool is five metres wide.
From the two metres wide window I can overlook the city and the lake.
a lot of different types of thing
The library has a wide range of information.
They sell a wide selection of chocolates.
There is a very wide choice of activities!
farther than usual or as far as possible
She ran towards me, her arms open wide.
She came into the living room and saw me standing on the stairs with my eyes opened wide.
to be completely awake
"Is Oliver awake yet?" "Yes, he's wide awake and running around his bedroom."
Sometimes, when I have put my children to bed, half an hour later an aircraft flies over and my two-year old daughter is wide awake again.
including a lot of different places, people, subjects, etc.
They have both travelled widely.
English is widely spoken around the world.
His work is widely known/accepted.
It is widely known that the Japanese and Chinese people are often very healthy.
to be very different
Prices vary widely from shop to shop.
People's opinions on the protection of the environment differ widely.
to become wider, or to make something wider
They are widening the road.
As it approaches the sea, the river begins to widen (out).
So I suggest widening the main road.
to increase or make something increase in number or degree
Why not widen the discussion to include other points of view?
It could help me to widen my knowledge about stamps.
affecting or including a lot of places, people, etc.
a widespread problem
widespread support
It is because of widespread use of deep-freezing and preservatives.
a woman whose husband has died and who has not married again
Many of her friends are also widows.
Roland was a rich man and now you are a rich widow.
the distance across something from one side to the other
It is 5 metres in width.
The needle is seven times smaller than the width of a human hair.
The width of a car hinders driving on the pavement, for instance.
to hold a weapon or tool and look as if you are going to use it
They were confronted by a man wielding a knife.
To start with, its special effects are superb, transporting the spectator into a new world of fascinating creatures, who wield mighty weapons to get citizens free from slavery and injustice.
to have a lot of influence or power over other people
People in his position wield a lot of power over our lives.
Fortunately, my parents do not wield authority over me and my siblings like dictators.
the woman a man is married to
I met Greg's wife for the first time.
She's his third wife.
How are you, and how are your wife and children?
A wild animal or plant lives or grows in its natural environment and not where people live.
a wild dog
wild flowers
You can see wild animals.
describes land that is not used to grow crops and has few people living in it
a wild mountainous region
This area is still wild.
very energetic and not controlled
a wild party
wild dancing
The audience burst into wild applause.
When I told him what I'd done, he went wild.
The children were wild with excitement.
When Jorge went up on the stage to get his award, he sang the song and the crowd went wild!
If someone, especially a child, runs wild, they behave as they want to and no one controls them.
Their nine-year-old son is left to run wild.
My parents decided to move to a small village when I was just a kid. Shortly after we settled in, my parents decided that I was running wild and that it was time for me to receive some sort of education.
If someone's imagination runs wild, they are not able to control their thoughts.
It was getting dark and my imagination was starting to run wild.
Her imagination started to run wild and she set about thinking about the dark corridors, the secret passages and the obscure dungeons that the castle might hide.
something that you say which is not based on facts and is probably wrong
You can't go round making wild accusations like that.
with a lot of wind, rain, etc.
a wild and stormy night
They played with the shadows of the night and danced with the sound of a wild wind.
bigger or better than anything you could imagine or hope for
The house was beyond my wildest dreams.
It was beyond my wildest dreams.
used to say that something is better than anything you could imagine or hope for
Never in my wildest dreams had I thought I would be offered a starring role in Hollywood.
Not even in my wildest dreams could I have imagined that finding a diary was to have such fortunate consequences for me.
a place that is in a completely natural state without houses, industry, roads, etc.
a beautiful mountain wilderness
At 7 o'clock we left our tiny hotel to head for the wilderness.
animals and plants that grow independently of people in their natural environment
a documentary on Peruvian wildlife
wildlife groups/conservation
The countryside will be the best place because we will be able to see the old castles, mountains and natural areas with forests and wildlife.
in a very energetic way and without control
He was dancing wildly.
They cheered wildly.
When I arrived at the party, I knew immediately that something was wrong ... people were sleeping on the floor, the house furniture was all torn apart, and people with beverages were dancing wildly.
extremely
I must say I'm not wildly keen on the idea.
The product has been wildly successful.
Funding field trips would mean increased resources for our wildly successful guest appearances, as well as the budget needed to foster our skilled debaters.
used to talk about what someone or something is able or willing to do
I'll give you a lift.
I've asked her but she won't come.
The car won't start.
I'll cook for you.
used to talk about what is going to happen in the future, especially things that you are certain about
Ben will be five years old next month.
The train leaves at 8.58, so we'll be in Scotland by lunchtime.
I'll see him on Saturday.
Will Susie be there?
It won't be easy to find another secretary.
I will arrive at 8 o'clock.
used to ask someone to do something
Will you give me her address?
Will you give that to Tony when you see him, please?
Will you join us for a drink, Evie?
Will you help me to paint my bedroom?
used in conditional sentences that start with 'if' and use the present tense
If he's late again, I'll be very angry.
I won't be surprised if she cancels the holiday.
If you want me to, I'll bring you some of my CDs.
used to form the future perfect tense
Next month, Gary will have been working here for 10 years.
He'll have reached Berlin by tonight.
First of all, if you go to work by bicycle every day, at the end of the month you will have saved more money because you won't have spent it buying petrol.
the mental power used to control and direct your thoughts and actions, or a determination to do something, despite any difficulties or opposition
From an early age she had a very strong will.
After six months in hospital she began to lose the will to live.
How would you find the will to look for another job?
what someone wants to happen
Against their will, they were forced to hold a meeting.
The government has failed to impose its will upon regional communities.
But if you go and learn a language against your will, then it's better not to go at all.
an official statement of what a person has decided should be done with their money and property after their death
Have you made a will yet?
She left me some money in her will.
This uncle of mine, rich as he was, decided to make a will some years before his death.
to be happy to do something if it is needed
If you're willing to fly at night, you can get a much cheaper ticket.
You said you needed a volunteer - well, I'm willing.
Apparently John and Gabriel are willing for us to use their garden.
Would you be willing to go to the restaurant (where we were) and find my watch?
wanting to do something
He is a very willing assistant.
It has also given them a willing slave, the machine, which will work as many hours as required without demanding overtime or rest time and without going on strike.
in a willing way
He would willingly risk his life for her.
I would willingly help you if I weren't going away tomorrow.
Of course, I'll willingly help you, even though I'm going to stay there only for a couple of weeks.
the state of being willing
I was impressed by her willingness to listen.
Thank you for your willingness to organise the trip.
the ability to make yourself do difficult things or to stop yourself from doing enjoyable things that are bad for you
It takes great willpower to lose weight.
In the end, I think, it all comes down to willpower and intelligence.
to get the most points in a competition or game
Which year was it that Italy won the World Cup?
Do you think Nadal will win this year?
Portugal is in Euro 2004 and I want Portugal to win this tournament.
to get a prize in a game or competition
He won £500 for his short story.
This is the third medal she's won this season.
I've won £20.
to get the most votes in an election
Who do you think will win the election?
to be successful in a war, fight, or argument
They won the war, but with heavy losses.
Everyone likes winning an argument.
After a short battle on the floor I won the fight.
to get approval/respect/support, etc. because of your skill and hard work
Her plans have won the support of many local people.
In my book, they should be prepared to work hard to win their colleagues' respect before they start to earn real money.
when someone wins a game, competition or election
It was United's sixth consecutive win this season.
Everyone was predicting a Republican win at the last election and look what happened.
It was a really interesting, exciting game which ended with a deserving 'One-Nil' win to Scotland.
a natural, fast movement of air
There isn't enough wind to fly a kite.
The weather forecast warned of strong/high winds and rain for today.
There was a light/gentle wind blowing.
There wasn't a breath of wind.
The wind is beginning to pick up.
There are coconut trees near the sea and sometimes gentle winds blew through them.
to take a risk
I decided to throw caution to the wind and book a ticket to India.
They just threw caution to the wind, and did what they wanted.
to turn or twist something long and thin around something else several times, or to turn or twist in this way
She wound the rope around the tree.
The door opened and an enormous worm in the shape of a finger rushed toward them. It wound around them and pulled them out of the house.
If a river, road, etc. winds somewhere, it bends a lot and is not straight.
The path winds along the edge of the bay.
The camp is situated among colourful meadows, there is a deep forest and, of course, the river winds through this lovely countryside.
describes a path, road, river, etc. which repeatedly turns in different directions
There's a very long, winding path leading up to the house.
Moreover, I agree with Chris when he thinks the route through the mountain may be very difficult: it is a winding and quite hazardous road.
a space usually filled with glass in the wall of a building or in a vehicle, to allow light and air in and to allow people inside the building to see out
Is it all right if I open/close the window?
He caught me staring out of the window.
I saw a child's face at the window.
She's got some wonderful plants in the window.
Near the window there are some flowers.
a separate area on a computer screen showing information and which you can move around
to minimize/maximize a window
Here you will be able to register your copy of Windows.
the window at the front end of a car, bus, etc.
A small stone shattered the windscreen as I was driving home.
Mending your bicycle by yourself is easy. That's not the case with cars: try repairing the engine, or changing the windscreen if it's broken.
a sport in which you sail across water by standing on a board and holding onto a large sail
We had a great holiday by the beach with lots of windsurfing.
On Thursday if the weather is better we'll go windsurfing.
with a lot of wind
It was a windy night.
It was wet and windy for most of the week.
It was sunny and a little windy, so it wasn't too hot.
an alcoholic drink which is usually made from grapes, or sometimes from other fruit
a wine cellar/glass
red/white/dry/sweet/sparkling wine
Shall we have a bottle/glass of wine with dinner?
I love Australian wines, especially the white wines.
Would you like to see the wine list, sir?
I like to drink wine or beer.
one of the body parts that a bird or insect uses to fly
The eagle took off, flapping its wings to gain height.
I enjoyed this place because there were a lot of trees and a lot of birds with colourful wings.
one of the two long, flat parts at the sides of an aircraft that allow it to fly
I could see the plane's wing out of the window.
Everything looked good but then, he made a wrong move and crashed into another plane with the wing.
a group of people in an organization or political party who have the same beliefs
the nationalist wing of the party
The extreme right wing of the party has dominated the discussion.
to quickly close and then open one eye, in order to be friendly or to show that something is a joke
She smiled and winked at me.
On the way to town they saw the postman, carrying a pair of shoes and half a dozen letters. He winked at them.
to not have any sleep
I was so excited last night - I didn't sleep a wink.
Nevertheless, due to the fact that I hadn't slept a wink the previous night, I began to fall asleep.
someone who wins a game or competition
There'll be a prize for the winner.
The winner of this match will play Gael Monfils in the semi-finals.
And to find out who are the lucky winners of our competition, Samantha is going to draw some names out of the bag.
The winners will get wonderful prizes.
the coldest season of the year, between autumn and spring
Last winter we went skiing.
It's been a very mild winter.
I think you tend to eat more in the winter.
I love my town because in winter I can go skiing.
to clean or dry something by moving a cloth across it
Have you got a cloth that I can wipe the floor with?
I'll just wipe the table.
If you accept my application, I can join any group you've made to help clean the street, and wipe the walls or doors of a public place.
to remove dirt, water, a mark, etc. from something with a cloth or your hand
He wiped a tear from his eye.
My father gave her a tissue and she wiped her tears away.
thin, metal thread used to fasten things or to make fences, cages, etc.
a wire fence
There was a six-foot high wire fence around the playground.
a long, thin piece of metal thread, usually covered in plastic, that carries electricity, telephone signals, etc.
Don't touch those wires whatever you do - they're live.
After carrying stuff like lights, microphones, wires and some other equipment for about three hours, I was exhausted.
the ability to use your knowledge and experience to make good decisions and judgments
One certainly hopes to gain a little wisdom as one grows older.
I tend to doubt the wisdom of separating a child from its family whatever the circumstances.
Did we ever stop to question the wisdom of going to war?
Before I went off to university my father gave me a few words of wisdom.
However, these two subjects are vital for us to obtain the wisdom needed in later life.
what most people believe
These ideas about childcare go against the conventional wisdom on the subject.
Thus, against conventional wisdom, I think that while a lot of adult problems are caused by money or the lack of it, it is really the ability to deal with money and to see money as a means rather than an end.
having or showing the ability to make good judgments, based on a deep understanding and experience of life
I think you made a wise choice.
Looking at the weather, I think we made a wise decision not to go to the coast this weekend.
I think it would be wiser to wait and see how much money you've got left before you make any decisions.
I never used to save money, but now I'm a little older and wiser I can see the sense in it.
So, you are coming to my country, that's a wise decision.
in a wise way
She wisely advised me to wait.
In my opinion, computer learning offers very interesting opportunities, especially to learn new languages, but such a powerful medium as the computer should be used wisely.
to want a situation that is different from the one that exists
I wish that I was/were a bit taller.
I wish I didn't have to go to work today.
I wish he would leave.
I wish I had been there.
I wish you were here, then you could see how nice it is.
to say that you hope someone will be lucky, successful, etc.
I wished him luck for his test.
I'm running in the 5000 metres - wish me luck!
I wish you luck for your exams.
to want to do something
I wish to make a complaint.
Passengers wishing to take the Kings Cross train should go to platform 9.
Dear Sir/Madam, I wish to apply for the post of helper which was advertised on the college noticeboard last Monday.
something that you write at the end of a letter
With best wishes, Anna
He ended the letter "Best wishes, Carlo".
what you want to do or what you want to happen
Did he express any wish to see me?
The hospital always tries to respect the wishes of its patients.
It was his greatest wish that one of his grandchildren would become a doctor.
It was always his dream to become a singer and he did everything to make his wish come true.
something that you say secretly to yourself about what you want to have or happen
She closed her eyes and made a wish.
I saw a star falling. I made a wish.
the ability to say things that are funny and clever
a woman of great intelligence and wit
He was known for his dry/sharp wit.
His wit and charm drew many people's attention to the topic and we gained a deeper insight into the tourist industry.
in stories, a woman who has magical powers that she uses to do bad or strange things
It was a story about an old witch.
A famous actress and her friend, a librarian, get the 'elixir of eternal youth' from the mysterious witch (Isabella Rossellini) and then their troubles begin...
used to say that people or things are in a place together or are doing something together
I was with Sylvia at the time.
He lives with his grandmother.
I'm going to France with a couple of friends.
Ingrid Bergman starred with Humphrey Bogart in the film 'Casablanca'.
On Sunday afternoon, she goes with her husband and her son to the swimming pool.
having or including something
a house with a swimming pool
a woman with brown eyes
I want you to cook rice with fish and olives.
using something
She hit him over the head with a tennis racket.
Fix the two pieces together with glue.
I can print the advertisement and tickets with my computer.
used to say what fills, covers, etc. something
a bucket filled with water
She filled the jug with cream.
It was like throwing her into a pool filled with ice.
used to describe the way someone does something
He plays with great skill.
People can do more things and with more energy when they are listening to music.
because of something
I was shaking with fear.
I can't work with all that noise going on.
It was Tuesday the 13th and the fact that I was very superstitious made me tremble with fear.
relating to something or someone
There's something wrong with the car.
It's such a shame when people use computers badly, just for damaging and making things worse, because if there's something wrong with them, almost everything is wrong with us too.
relating to a particular thing
I am writing with respect to your letter of 24 June.
With respect to the ages of the members, they are between fifteen and twenty years old.
using something to help you
She can walk with the aid of a stick.
The newest computer can handle data that human brains cannot and therefore all scientific research is carried out with the aid of computers.
with a very high score or with great success
He passed the entrance exam with flying colours.
I worked intensively on the course and I passed with flying colours.
so that you can do something
He's doing some improvements on the house with a view to selling it.
The purpose of this report is to assess the success of the latest tour our sports club organised and make relevant suggestions with a view to enhancing future trips.
without using any type of tool or weapon when doing something that requires a lot of strength
He wrestled the lion to the ground with his bare hands.
You could tell your grand-children about the good old days when you hunted for mammoths and skinned them with your bare hands, just a few million years back (sigh: "seems like yesterday").
in an excited or anxious way
I waited with bated breath as the results were read out.
Nevertheless, a huge number of scientists carrying out very useful research, and composers, actors, and artists making us watch their creations with bated breath, do not earn as much money as a lot of outstanding sportsmen do.
used by someone to express good wishes when they give you something free, for example in a restaurant
Please accept this champagne with the compliments of the manager.
The guest can also choose from a selection of wonderful desserts such as mousse au chocolat with fresh raspberries before finishing his/her meal with a rose liqueur - with the compliments of the house (and the bill).
to take money out of a bank account
She withdrew $50.
Apart from this, without credit cards I would have to look for a bank to withdraw money, and this is not very easy for a student.
to remove something, especially because of an official decision
This product has been withdrawn from sale.
He has threatened to withdraw his support.
But the government stepped back, withdrew the proposal and fired three ministers.
to decide that you will not now be in a race, competition, etc.
Christie was forced to withdraw from the race because of injury.
when you take money out of a bank account
The bank became suspicious after several large withdrawals were made from his account in a single week.
when something is taken away so that it is no longer available, or when someone stops being involved in an activity
Doctors demanded the withdrawal of the drug (from the market) after several cases involving dangerous side-effects were reported.
Her sudden withdrawal from the championship caused a lot of press speculation about her health.
the withdrawal of financial support
quiet and not talking to other people
He seemed quiet and withdrawn.
I should have been friendlier and more interested, rather than quiet and withdrawn.
before a particular period of time has finished
The ambulance arrived within 10 minutes.
This product should be eaten within three days.
I will return it to you within four days.
less than a particular distance from something
Two-thirds of Californians live within 15 miles of the coast.
The hotel is within easy reach of the airport.
By the way, the receptionist told me that the scenery round the lake is very beautiful and that the Butterfly Farm and the monument shown on your map are within easy reach.
not outside the limits of something
We came within five points of beating them.
The project was completed well within budget.
Similarly the visitor has also shown responsibility to remain within the limits of the society he is moving in, so that he cannot cause any hurt or harm to local culture.
inside an area, group, or system
a dispute within the department
There's a pharmacy within the hospital building.
Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing to you, as requested, in order to ensure that the training - whose purpose is to help the staff improve its communications with the other departments within the company - is effective and not just a waste of time.
avoiding behaviour that is extreme or silly
You can wear what you want, within limits.
They should be given a choice of food, within limits.
possible for someone to achieve
Winning the championship suddenly seemed within their reach.
We have decided to take action to prevent further damage being inflicted, and are convinced the task is fully within our reach.
If something is within reason, it is acceptable and possible.
We can wear what we like to the office, within reason.
Although this view may seem too harsh and hard-hearted, I believe it is within reason.
not having, using, or doing something
I've come out without my umbrella.
You look nice without make-up.
You shouldn't drive for more than three hours without taking/having a break.
I have an exam tomorrow and I cannot study without the folder.
when someone is not with someone else
I couldn't have done it without you.
You can start the meeting without me.
Majorca is wonderful, but I feel lonely without you.
immediately
This problem needs to be dealt with without delay.
Firstly, the programme began on time at midday without delay.
to not be harmed or broken by something
a bridge designed to withstand earthquakes
In the past older or weaker organisms unable to withstand certain diseases had to die.
a person who sees an event happening, especially a crime or an accident
Police are appealing for witnesses to the accident to come forward.
According to (eye) witnesses, the robbery was carried out by two teenage boys.
Furthermore, the witness was assassinated.
to see something happen, especially an accident or crime
Did anyone witness the attack?
Finally, if you witness an accident you can inform the police quickly, which can save lives.
using words in a clever and funny way
a witty comment/remark
He was witty and very charming.
I have read it many times and the author's witty remarks and elegant style have always been a source of entertainment to me.
a wild animal of the dog family
Wolves hunt in groups known as packs.
We could hear wolves howling in the distance.
Before we knew it, Nick leapt onto the wolf and they started to fight.
an adult female person
a 30-year-old woman
She's a really nice woman.
A woman and two men were arrested on the day after the explosion.
Women first got the vote in Britain in 1918.
Your teacher will be a woman.
to ask yourself questions or express a wish to know about something
Hadn't you better phone home? Your parents will be wondering where you are.
He's starting to wonder whether he did the right thing in accepting this job.
Will this turkey be big enough for eight, I wonder?
"Have you decided where you're going next summer?" "I've been wondering about going to Florida."
You might wonder why I decided to do so.
used in phrases, at the beginning of a request, to make it more formal and polite
I wonder - could you help me carry these books?
I wonder whether you could pass me the butter?
I was wondering if you could give me some information about places to visit in the area?
I wonder if there is a way that I would be able to cover the work I have missed?
it is not surprising
No wonder the children are excited - this is the first time they've been abroad.
"If brutal killers like these two are at work, it is no wonder that so many people have fled," he said.
No wonder that people are more tired and are not interested in reading books as much as in the past.
extremely good
He's a wonderful cook.
"Did you know that Daryl's getting married?" "No, I didn't. How wonderful!"
We had a wonderful time in Italy last summer.
I hope you will have a wonderful time.
the hard material that trees are made of
He gathered some wood to build a fire.
The box is made of wood and it's very heavy.
It is long and it is made of wood.
an area of land covered with a thick growth of trees
an oak wood
We went for a walk in the woods after lunch.
There is a big wood round this lake.
made of wood
The house was surrounded by a tall, wooden fence.
Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon.
I got three Yo-yos and a wooden aeroplane.
an area of land with a lot of trees
A lot of the area is woodland.
Our house, which was quite spacious, was near a river and surrounded by beautiful rolling hills and extensive woodland.
thick thread or material that is made from the hair of a sheep
The blankets are made from wool and the sheets from cotton.
Put on your red wool cardigan - it'll be nice and warm.
How many balls of wool did you need to knit that sweater?
I got many presents: a camera, a wool sweater and other things.
a group of letters or sounds that mean something, or a single letter or sound that means something
What's the word for goat in French?
Some words are more difficult to spell than others.
Your essay should be no more than two thousand words long.
When I go to college, I like to learn more English words.
to not believe/understand/hear/say, etc. anything
I don't believe a word he says.
Peter took my hand and asked me to leave, so I said goodbye to Roger and his girlfriend - who never said a word.
to talk to someone for a short time
Could I have a word about the sales figures today?
Perhaps you would have a quiet word with Simon about the problem.
The nurse sitting beside me said to me, 'Your mother would like to have a word with you,' then she went out.
used to explain what something means in a different way
He said he's too busy - in other words he isn't interested.
They had had a great time before and had drunk too much alcohol. In other words, they were totally drunk.
to promise someone something
Paolo gave me his word that he wouldn't tell anyone.
I give you my word that it will never happen again.
to believe what someone says without any proof
Take my word for it - this curry is very hot!
You can take my word for it that she is absolutely capable of carrying out this job - fond of children, patient, good-natured and competent.
to do what you said you would do
He agreed to come and I'm sure he'll keep his word.
It turned out that the company that had been hired to organize it did not keep their word.
using the exact words that were originally used
She repeated word for word what he had told her.
This is word for word the beginning of the story that Katrina handed to her French teacher.
used when you repeat what someone said
In the manager's words, the game was 'a total disaster'.
In the immortal words of the bard "... if music be the food of love....... play on!"
to be so surprised, angry or moved by something that you do not know what to say
This prize is such an honour and so unexpected - I am lost for words.
I was so enraged that I was lost for words for quite a long time.
not knowing what to say
The question was unexpected and she was temporarily at a loss for words.
If it was James I would be at a loss for words, I didn't know what to tell him.
the place where you go to do your job
Do you have far to travel to work each day?
Thousands of people are seriously injured at work every year.
When does she leave for work?
What time do you start/finish work?
Finally, when he finishes work, he goes to a pub.
something you do as a job to earn money
Has she got any work yet?
Many young people are out of work.
I'd like to come and help you but I've got work tomorrow.
the activities that you have to do at school, for your job, etc.
I'll have to take this work home with me and finish it there.
The teacher said she was pleased with my work.
If you haven't any work on Thursday we can start our work on that day.
when you use physical or mental effort to do something
Carrying heavy loads around all day is hard work.
I can certainly do a report for you but it will be a lot of work.
The lessons are very good but the teacher is going very quickly. It will be hard work.
a painting, book, piece of music, etc.
The museum has many works by Picasso as well as other modern painters.
the complete works of Shakespeare
We agreed that something had to be done to promote the popularity of local films, some of them being great works of art.
to do a job, especially the job you do to earn money
She worked as a cleaner at the hospital.
Mike works for a computer company.
My dad works very long hours.
She works from Monday to Friday.
If a machine or piece of equipment works, it is not broken.
Our telephone isn't working.
I can't get the radio to work.
I tried to phone her house, but her phone wasn't working, so I decided to go to her house.
If something works, it is effective or successful.
Her plan to increase sales worked.
The tablets will start to work in a few minutes.
I changed cars several times to fool the police. It worked very well.
to know how to use a machine or piece of equipment
Do you know how to work the video camera?
At that time, I also learned how to work the lighting during the play.
someone who works too much and does not have time to do anything else
My husband's a workaholic.
Unless you are a real "workaholic", and there are some of them out there, working like a slave to get more money doesn't pay off.
someone who works for a company or organization but does not have a powerful position
factory workers
Many companies still treat their management staff better than their workers.
There is a man with a suitcase and he says: "Hi, I'm a worker in the airport and I found this suitcase."
someone who works quickly/slowly/well, etc.
He's rather a slow worker, but he is very thorough.
I'll recommend you as a hard worker and a very nice person.
all the people who work for a company or organization
We have a highly skilled workforce.
Before giving them rewards, companies need to train their workforce and identify their potential.
all the people in a country who are able to do a job
10% of the workforce are unemployed.
There is hardly a nation without representatives in Germany's workforce.
relating to your job
a 37-hour working week
working hours
Working conditions in the mill have hardly changed over the last twenty years.
She has a difficult working relationship with many of her staff.
As you know, I work in a bank, so I have to dress smartly during working hours.
knowledge about something which is good enough to be useful
She has a working knowledge of German and Russian.
Furthermore, I have a working knowledge of English, Spanish, Catalan and Italian.
a period of physical exercise
a light workout
Are there many fitness-centres where we can practise our daily workout?
the place where you work
We are trying to get rid of bullying in the workplace.
Nowadays, our jobs consume more and more of our time so a good atmosphere at the workplace is important.
when a group of people meet to learn more about something by discussing it and doing practical exercises
a workshop on crime prevention
All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed this event, but I think there ought to be more computers provided and the numbers of participants to a single workshop should be limited.
the Earth and all the people, places and things on it
She's travelled all over the world.
News of the disaster shocked the whole world.
We live in a changing world.
I like travelling and discovering new places in the world.
your life and experiences
His whole world fell apart when she left.
I like this room because it's "my world" and because it is very big.
the people and things that are involved in a particular activity or subject
the entertainment world
the world of politics
Well, as you know, I'm not very interested in the fashion world, so I rarely spend much time shopping for clothes.
to have the advantages of two different situations
Living in the country and working in the city you have the best of both worlds.
Only those that can afford to live in the suburban areas can combine the best of both worlds and they tend to be rather affluent.
to be of extremely good quality
Their chocolate cake is just out of this world!
The dessert trays are out of this world.
to make someone feel much happier or healthier
That swim has done me a world of good.
I feel a year abroad would do her a world of good in letting her care for children, learn to speak English properly, and see life from different aspects.
If something is not the end of the world, it will not cause very serious problems.
It won't be the end of the world if I don't get the job.
to be very happy
I had just won a major tournament and I was feeling on top of the world.
I felt like I was on top of the world and nothing could take that happiness from me.
existing or happening in all parts of the world
a worldwide success
An increase in average temperature by only a few degrees could cause environmental problems worldwide.
You can visit the main monuments of Paris, known worldwide, like Notre-Dame Cathedral or the Eiffel Tower, built in 1903.
a small creature with a long, thin, soft body and no legs
Blackbirds eat worms, insects, and berries.
Fishing is my hobby and that's why I bought these plastic worms, that are not very good - it's better to use live worms!
anxious because you are thinking about problems or unpleasant things that might happen
She's really worried about her son.
I'm worried that someone will find out.
She was sitting behind her desk with a worried expression/look on her face.
You had me worried for a moment back there - I thought you wouldn't be able to stop in time.
I'm worried about your health.
used to tell someone that they do not need to think about something or do anything about something
Don't worry - she'll be all right.
Don't worry about phoning Ian - I'll do it later.
Don't worry about dinner, because I eat everything.
to think about problems or unpleasant things that might happen in a way that makes you feel anxious
Try not to worry - there's nothing you can do to change the situation.
It's silly worrying about things which are outside your control.
I'm worried about your health.
to make someone feel anxious because of problems or unpleasant things that might happen
It worries me that he hasn't phoned yet.
The lack of rain is starting to worry people.
Unemployment is increasing too, and today, it worries every single citizen of the world, specially the ones who live in a third world country.
a problem that makes you feel anxious
health/financial worries
Keeping warm in the winter is a major worry for many old people.
My worries proved to be wrong.
when you are anxious about something
She's been sick with worry.
Unemployment, bad health - all sorts of things can be a cause of worry.
You really need to spend a whole month without any kind of worry.
making you feel unhappy and afraid
It's a very worrying situation.
But the most worrying thing about this matter is you.
(comparative of bad) more unpleasant or difficult than something else that is also bad
The exam was worse than I expected.
His behaviour is even worse than his sister's.
The heat is much worse in the daytime.
It takes me more than one hour to get to work every day. In the evening it is even worse.
to become more ill, unpleasant, difficult, severe, etc. than before
My cold seems to be getting worse.
If the rain gets any worse, we'll have to stop walking.
I thought, it couldn't get worse.
used to emphasize how unpleasant, difficult, severe, etc. something is becoming
The economic climate is getting worse and worse.
The traffic situation in all big towns is getting worse and worse, so that bicycles or public transport must become more attractive.
something that is more unpleasant or difficult
By the third month of the expedition they had endured many hardships, but worse was to follow.
"What about the bride's dress - wasn't it appalling?" "I don't know, I've seen worse."
But worse was to come at 19:30 when we went to see one of London's musicals.
comparative of badly
He did worse than he was expecting in the exams.
He was treated much worse than I was.
to make a situation more difficult, unpleasant, etc.
To make matters worse, our car broke down!
To make matters worse, the newspaper said they only played for thirty-five minutes.
to become worse or to make something become worse
His condition suddenly worsened last week.
I believe erecting a car park in the centre could worsen the situation drastically.
to have or show a strong feeling of respect and admiration for God or a god
In the various regions of India, Hindus worship different gods and observe different religious festivals.
The Revolution was of such importance because Greece became a free country again and the people were free to talk, worship their God and have Greek schools.
to love and admire someone or something very much
She worshipped her mother.
Firstly, many famous people are considered as idols who are worshipped and imitated, which might make them believe they are important, especially when they have a certain media presence.
when you worship God or a god, often through praying or singing
daily acts of worship
Christian/Sikh/Muslim worship
For Jews, the synagogue is the centre for community worship and study.
Local people have complained about improperly dressed tourists entering places of worship.
There were Holy Masses celebrated by him in several cities and places of worship.
(superlative of bad) the most unpleasant, difficult or severe
That was the worst meal I've ever eaten.
"It was the worst moment of my life," she admitted.
And you, what is your worst gift?
the most unpleasant or difficult thing, person, or situation
That was the worst I've seen him play in several years.
This situation was the worst I have lived through.
used to emphasize the worst thing, situation, etc.
We had no food or light, but worst of all, we had no water.
And worst of all, her mother had been always against that relationship and had given her advice many times.
(superlative of badly) the most badly
Small businesses have been worst hit by the recession.
Roads in the Tayside region were worst affected by the snow.
to worry that something very bad will happen or that something very bad has happened
When there was no sign of the children, the rescuers feared the worst.
Her parents had been quarrelling constantly now for almost half a year, and she feared the worst.
to have a particular value in money
Our house is worth about £400 000.
to be important or interesting enough to receive a particular action or to cause you to do something
When you're in Reykjavik, the National Museum is worth a visit.
His latest book is definitely worth reading.
It's really worth visiting.
to be useful or enjoyable despite needing a lot of effort
It was a long climb to the top of the hill, but it was worth it for the view.
Don't tire yourself out, Geri, it's really not worth it.
Forget him, love - he's just not worth it.
There were a lot of hills in the park, and it was very tiring to go up riding a bike, but when you got to the top, and stared at the amazing view, it was worth it.
If it is worth your while doing something, it is useful or enjoyable to do it.
It's worth your while taking out travel insurance before you travel.
It isn't worth my while going all that way just for one day.
It would be worth your while to visit the country's capital Havana, and don't forget to go into the Folklore Museum and Library, the War Museum and the Archeological Museum.
not important or useful
He made me feel stupid and worthless.
One important aspect is, of course, that they will feel worthless.
having no value in money
The painting's a fake - it's completely worthless.
I think that many people have these kinds of "worthless" objects, which they actually hold more dear to them than the gramophone they bought in an auction, or the car they won in a quiz-show, or even the wedding dress they inherited from their great-grandmother.
useful and enjoyable, despite needing a lot of effort
She considers teaching a worthwhile career.
The time and expense involved in keeping up to date with all the changes has been worthwhile.
If you need him on this project, you've got to make it financially worthwhile for him.
It's a worthwhile trip. You'll have the opportunity to visit beautiful places and learn lots of history.
deserving respect, admiration or support
He is unlikely to succeed in getting his bill through Congress, however worthy it is.
Every year she makes a large donation to a worthy cause.
The performers are all neatly dressed and on the whole, they have all made a worthy effort.
deserving to be given attention, noticed, etc.
Two points in this report are especially worthy of notice.
Try as I might, getting good grades was always met more with a sense of mission accomplished - duly noted - than a feat worthy of congratulations.
used to say politely that you want something
I would like a cup of coffee, please.
I would like to talk to her myself.
I'd like a cup of coffee, please. I'd like to talk to her myself. I'd like fish and chips (but not too fatty!)
used to ask someone if they want something
Would you like a drink?
Would you like me to come with you?
Would you like to come?
used to say that you would very much like something
I would love some chocolate right now!
I would love to be an actor.
I'd love some chocolate right now! I'd love to be an actor. I'd love some chops and beer.
used to say that you would very much like to do something that someone has suggested
"Would you like to come to the concert with us?" "I'd love to."
We would love to go to the beach - thanks for inviting us.
We'd love to go to the beach - thanks for inviting us. Yes, I'd love to come with you.
used to say what might happen if something else happens
What would you do if you lost your job?
They knew there would be trouble unless the report was finished by the next day.
I was just wondering if you would ask me that, because if you didn't, I would - I just love shopping!
used as the past form of 'will' to talk about what someone said or thought
Archie said he would see his brother tomorrow.
They thought that she would never recover.
He said to me he would like to come back soon.
used as the past form of 'will' to talk about what someone was willing to do or what something was able to do
The car wouldn't start this morning.
I asked her to talk to him, but she wouldn't.
My parents wouldn't let me stay in a hotel alone.
used to talk about a situation that you can imagine happening
It would be lovely to go to New York.
It would be great to join you and your friends in the mountains.
used to request something politely
Would you mind sharing a room?
Would you mind if I called you, to know what I've missed?
used to show that you prefer to have or do one thing more than another
Which would you rather do, go swimming or play tennis?
I would rather have a beer.
I'd rather have a beer.
Wouldn't you rather finish it tomorrow?
used to talk about things that happened often in the past
He would always turn and wave at the end of the street.
Since my childhood I have always been fond of swimming. I would usually spend my summer holidays on a campsite near a river with my family.
would prefer
I'd sooner spend a bit more money than take chances with safety.
However, with many living examples of unemployed people getting by on benefits, some young people have been influenced to think that they would sooner live on benefits than work all week and receive moderate wages.
wanting or trying to be
a would-be artist/politician
Her schoolmates were greatly surprised that a would-be lawyer with a promising career like her had made such a decision.
an injury, especially one that is made with a knife or bullet
a gunshot wound
a chest/leg wound
a flesh wound
Rollo discovered that his best friend was implicated in the penicillin racket: the racketeer would put sand into penicillin without worrying about the great suffering that they caused to people who needed penicillin for their wounds.
to injure someone, especially with a knife or gun
The police chief was badly wounded in the explosion.
Harry was wounded on his leg.
used to show surprise, excitement, admiration, etc.
Wow! Did you make that cake? It looks delicious!
Wow, this is very cool!
to cover or surround something with paper, cloth or other material
She wrapped the present and tied it with ribbon.
Wrap the chicken in foil and cook it for two hours.
to cover someone with material in order to protect them
She wrapped the baby in a blanket.
He wrapped a towel around his shoulders.
After a few seconds I gathered my wits and wrapped the towel around myself again.
to destroy or badly damage something
The explosion wrecked several cars and damaged nearby buildings.
In addition, they agree that the solution to the traffic is of utmost importance in a big city, because noise and pollution from car exhaust pipes wreck the nerves of city dwellers.
a vehicle or ship that has been destroyed or badly damaged
Divers exploring the wreck managed to salvage some coins and jewellery.
The burnt-out wrecks of two police cars littered the road.
We turned around and saw fumes rising in the air from the wreck of the plane.
someone who is in a bad physical or mental condition
I was a complete wreck by the end of my exams.
So much of what I really appreciate in this life is connected to music and the events that surround it, so a loss of that would totally devastate me and turn me into a wreck!
the parts that remain of a car, ship, or aircraft that has been destroyed
Two survivors were pulled from the wreckage.
When resting next to the wreckage he had got bitten by a snake and had crept into the cockpit to die there.
very unhappy or ill
I'd been feeling wretched all day so I went to bed early.
As a result, some people will realise they were unable to achieve their ends when they were younger and will feel wretched.
very bad or of poor quality
The refugees were living in wretched conditions.
Because working leads to self-esteem, that is most vital for people, especially when they are in wretched conditions.
a small line on your face that you get when you grow old
This cream reduces the appearance of wrinkles.
And so time goes by and old age is closing in. One morning you notice the wrinkles around your eyes and the grey hair that doesn't keep any of the old colour.
with a lot of wrinkles
a wrinkled face
To this day, and for many years to come, this piece of music brings back the dirty wrinkled face of the loneliest person I've ever known.
the part of the body between the hand and the arm
I sprained my wrist playing squash.
I fell on some stairs and hurt my wrist.
to produce letters, words or numbers on a surface or computer
Write your name at the top of the page.
When you fill in the form, please write clearly in black ink.
Can I borrow your laptop tonight - I need to write my essay.
Every lesson I read and write loads of sentences.
to send a letter or email to someone, giving them information or expressing your thoughts or feelings
James hasn't written to me recently.
I wrote my sister a letter.
My mother wrote to give me details about the party.
The travel company has written giving information about the trip.
I can write my penfriend a letter twice a week.
to create a book, story, article, etc. or a piece of music
He's writing a book on Colombia.
She writes for Time magazine.
Walton wrote the Cello Concerto in 1956.
Stephen King wrote this book. PHRASAL VERB write sth down or write down sth PHRASAL VERB
to write something on a piece of paper so that you do not forget it
Did you write Jo's phone number down?
I wrote the address down and left the restaurant.
to decide that someone or something is not useful or important
They had written him off before they even met him.
She had written that man off.
to write something on paper or on a computer in a complete or final form, often using notes you have made
Have you written up that report yet?
a person who writes books or articles to be published
a travel/sports/fiction/crime writer
She is a well-known writer of children's books.
The last book I read was a true story written by a young South-American writer.
the skill or activity of producing words on a surface
Teachers focus on speaking and writing in the afternoon classes.
In my lessons I learn reading, writing and English grammar.
something which has been written or printed
The writing on the label was too small to read.
the way that someone writes
Do you recognise the writing on the envelope?
the activity of creating pieces of written work, such as books, stories, poems, etc., or the written work of one person or a group of people
I did a course in creative writing.
She is studying women's writing of the 1930s.
Black humour is a distinguishable feature of his writing.
An agreement that is in writing is official and is proof of that agreement.
Please confirm your reservation in writing.
I am telling you in writing that I would like to help you.
expressed in writing, or involving writing
written instructions
a written exam
I would like you to tell me what subject you're teaching tomorrow and the pages of the homework, so I can do the written test in the next class.
not correct
Three of your answers were wrong.
That clock is wrong - it's 12.30, not 12.15.
I'm sorry, you've got the wrong number.
We're going the wrong way.
We listen to a tape sometimes, and mark wrong letters.
to think or say something that is not correct
I was wrong about the time - the shop closed at 7, not 8.
You're wrong in thinking that Matt is from the States - he's Canadian.
If I'm not wrong, it is in the living room.
to produce an answer or result that is not correct, or to say or write something that is not correct
I got most of the answers wrong.
The newspapers got the story completely wrong.
If something is wrong, there is a problem.
You've been quiet all evening. Is there anything wrong?
What's wrong?
There's something wrong with my computer.
I didn't know him, so I thought that there was something wrong.
not considered morally acceptable by most people
Children should be taught that violence is wrong.
It is wrong to tell lies.
What's wrong with having a bit of fun?
To sum up, I think it is wrong to keep animals in zoos.
not suitable or correct, or not as it should be
She's the wrong person for the job.
She got in with the wrong crowd at university.
Personally I prefer to think that you gave the job to the wrong person.
to start a relationship or activity badly
He got off on the wrong foot with my parents by arriving late.
One of the greatest pleasures of reading "The Remains of the Day" would be to see the gradual development of the relationship between Stevens and Miss Kenton. From the beginning, they get off on the wrong foot.
in a way that is not correct
You've spelt my name wrong.
to develop problems
Something's gone wrong with my computer.
Despite all that went wrong, there was something I really enjoyed. It was visiting the Diamond Cave.
used when you do not want someone to think that you do not like someone or something
Don't get me wrong, I like her, but she can be very annoying.
Don't get me wrong, I love my aunts, I really do, but not as houseguests.
not correctly
It has been said - wrongly - that Americans hate government.
Equally, the point about 'staying' is erroneous: we stayed at Riverside Hotel instead of Hotel Astrid, which closed last year, and Hotel Royal was wrongly described as having 'special rates' for students.
accused or punished unfairly or illegally
She was wrongly convicted of drug smuggling.
You have also wrongly accused the organisers of spending too much money on organising the event.
extreme dislike or fear of people from other countries
They accused her of xenophobia.
This creates a climate of social tension. The number of poor people increase while the rich become richer and the middle-class tends to disappear; xenophobia and other cultural 'harassment' become popular, accompanied by more violence and increasing crime rates.
a photograph that shows the inside of your body
They took an X-ray of his leg.
I was with my last patient trying to operate on his damaged tooth when I realized the X-Ray was on the wrong side and that I wasn't working on the damaged tooth.
a boat with sails and sometimes an engine, used for either racing or travelling on for pleasure
a luxury yacht
a yacht club
The class of boat that best fits my physical condition is the one called Snipe, that seems to be available at your yacht club.
a unit of measurement equal to three feet or approximately 91.4 centimetres
The garden is about 100 yards long.
I'm not a fitness maniac and I don't go to a shop which is 50 yards away from my house just to buy a newspaper, but if you go to school, why not go by bike?
to take a deep breath with your mouth wide open, because you are tired or bored
I can't stop yawning - I must be tired.
I think that the maths lesson is the most suitable one to be recorded. Watching ourselves yawning and nearly asleep would really reflect how boring maths is.
yes
"Do you like your job?" "Yeah, it's all right I suppose."
"Will you drive?" "Yeah, sure."
Yeah, try wearing black because we're gonna get dirty.
a period of twelve months, especially from January 1st to December 31st
Elaine worked in Italy for two years.
2006 was one of the worst years of my life.
last/next year
He joined the company a year ago.
This tree keeps its leaves all (the) year (round).
She came from Pakistan two years ago.
to be a particular age
Her son is six years old.
He is 53 years old and he lives in Madeira.
the part of the year, in a school or university, during which courses are taught
the school/college year
Emma's now in her final/first/second year at Manchester University.
The class is every Friday until the end of the school year.
for a long time
Roz and I have been going there for years.
I had not seen him for years.
10/20, etc. years younger than someone
My wife is 8 years my junior.
I have a sister four years my junior and in my opinion we have no reason to complain.
to want something very much with a feeling of sadness
They yearned for peace.
She yearned to get away.
I yearn to go there because I have never been to Africa before.
to shout something very loudly
Our neighbours were yelling at each other this morning.
The child yelled out in pain.
"Just get out of here!" she yelled.
"Cut," yelled the director.
a loud shout
Suddenly there was a loud/great yell from the bathroom.
Suddenly a big yell came out of my throat.
being the same colour as a lemon or the sun
a bright yellow T-shirt
It was early autumn and the leaves were turning yellow.
The walls are yellow and the cupboard is orange.
a yellow colour
You should wear more yellow - it suits you.
I wanna paint the room in blue and yellow.
used to agree with something, or to give a positive answer
"Would you like a glass of wine?" "Yes, please."
"Do you like Thai food?" "Yes, I love it."
"He's a really nice guy." "Yes, he is."
"Report to me at nine o'clock tomorrow morning." "Yes, sir."
"Have you had enough to eat?" "Yes, thank you."
Yes, I can come tomorrow for dinner.
used to show that you are listening to someone, or that you are ready to listen and to give them an answer or information
"Dad." "Yes, what do you want, honey?"
"Yes, can I help you?"
used when you are disagreeing with a negative statement
"I'm not a very good cook, though." "Yes, you are - you make wonderful food!"
on the day before today
He rang yesterday while you were out.
I saw her yesterday morning/afternoon/evening.
I got your letter yesterday.
up until now
I haven't spoken to her yet.
He hasn't finished yet.
"Are you ready?" "Not yet - wait a moment."
I haven't seen the sea yet.
now or as early as this time
I don't want to go home yet.
I don't need it yet because my parents gave me a new computer for my birthday.
the best or worst, etc. until now
Of all the songs I've heard tonight, that's the best yet.
That was my worst exam yet.
And that was my worst experience yet.
again after something has happened or been done many times before
The bus was late yet again.
Tom, thank you so much yet again for your interest. This talk is very important to me and to count on you is an honour for our college.
from now and for a particular period of time in the future
She won't be back for a long time yet.
Our holiday isn't for weeks yet.
It's a fact that everybody knows that living in Poland is not easy now and it won't be for a long time yet.
until and including this time
We haven't needed extra staff as yet, but may do in the future.
No ambulances had as yet managed to get across the river.
I would like to do something about it, but as I can't imagine building anything near my beautiful house (because I'm afraid it would destroy its wonderful harmony), I have no idea as yet how to solve this problem.
used to show that you are surprised or annoyed that something is being repeated or increased
He's given us yet more work to do.
The awe-inspiring view of the park must not be destroyed for yet another building.
used to say there is still a possibility that something will happen
He may win yet.
Weakened, the tunnel could yet crumble and fall at any time.
to not have done something that was expected before this time
They have yet to make a decision.
But she had yet to inform her fiancé.
used to connect two words, phrases, or clauses when the second part adds something surprising to the first part
simple yet effective
I agree it's unlikely, yet she knows what she's talking about.
It was huge and yet gracious.
to produce or provide something
to yield a profit
The investigation yielded results.
It is to be hoped that my suggestion will be implemented and will yield immediate results.
a set of exercises for the mind and body, based on the Hindu religion
She does yoga three times a week.
We do yoga in a heated room so we sweat a lot.
a slightly sour, thick liquid made from milk with bacteria added to it, sometimes sweetened and with a fruit flavour added and sometimes eaten plain
natural/plain yogurt
strawberry yogurt
low-fat yogurt
I only had a yogurt for lunch.
In the morning they eat yogurt with masala chappaties.
used to refer to the person or people you are talking to
You look nice.
I love you.
You're coming tonight, aren't you?
Are you two ready?
You painted that yourself? You clever girl!
Thank you for your message.
people in general
You learn to accept these things as you get older.
You can't get a driving licence till you're seventeen in this country.
Too much alcohol is bad for you.
How do you get this thing to start?
You can get there by plane.
said as a polite answer when someone thanks you for doing something
"It was very kind of you to help." "You're welcome."
used when you are giving an explanation about something
I didn't know she was Welsh, you see.
You see, it was already late by that time.
Family matters had to stay in the family, you see.
having lived or existed for only a short time and not old
young adults/children
His girlfriend is very young.
Philippa is the youngest person in the family.
Angela is two years younger than Clare.
I have got two young children.
young people generally
it's the sort of music that appeals mainly to the young.
I have nothing against mini-skirts, but I think they're strictly for the young.
In my opinion the young should work rather than wait for their pocket money.
a young person, especially an older child
He talked to the youngsters about the dangers of drugs.
Like many other nations worldwide, with mastering much more knowledge and skills of information technology than the elder group of people, it is not surprising that Chinese youngsters learn more than their previous generations did about what is happening around the world.
belonging or relating to the person or group of people being spoken or written to
Is this your bag?
It's not your fault.
Your mother is driving me crazy.
What's your problem?
I like your food.
belonging or relating to people generally
Of course you want the best for your children.
Garlic is good for your blood.
Riding a bicycle is a good way of maintaining personal fitness and doesn't harm your health either.
used to show that something belongs to or is connected with the person or group of people being spoken or written to
Is this pen yours?
Unfortunately, my legs aren't as long as yours.
I've got something of yours.
My bicycle is broken. Can you lend me yours?
used at the end of formal letters when you know the name of the person you are writing to
Yours sincerely, Emma Clarke.
I'm going to ask Tom for the work I will miss. Yours sincerely, Yours faithfully
used to end a formal letter to someone whose name you do not know
Yours faithfully, Katherine Smith
I look forward to hearing from you. Yours faithfully, Jane Brown.
the reflexive form of the pronoun 'you'
Be careful with that knife or you'll cut yourself!
I hope you enjoy yourself.
After that you could choose a partner to talk about what you usually do in your free time and the last thing was to describe yourself in front of the class.
alone or without anyone else's help
We didn't mean to leave you all by yourself.
Can you lift it by yourself?
Did you make the dress yourself?
You can do that yourself.
It is difficult to get there by yourself.
used to give special emphasis to the subject of the sentence
If you yourself ever need help, would you know where to get it?
If you are thinking of taking it up yourself always do a warm-up exercise before you run, don't go too fast at the beginning, and don't overdo it.
used when both the subject and object of the verb are 'you', and 'you' is also being used to refer to people generally
You tell yourself everything's all right but you know it's not really.
You help yourself by doing some exercise.
young people generally
the youth of today
a youth club
Finally I decided to join a new youth club in my town.
the period of time when someone is young
I was a fairly good football player in my youth.
I played several kinds of sports during my youth, but now I am not a member of any club.
an African animal like a horse with black and white lines
We saw a zebra in the distance.
Otherwise there would be many children and grown-ups who would have never seen an elephant, a tiger, a zebra etc.
the number 0
Five, four, three, two, one, zero.
Can you bring me my laptop, because I have to do some homework on it - if I don't do this I will get a zero.
the temperature at which water freezes in degrees centigrade
The temperature is expected to drop to ten degrees below zero tonight.
We have to learn that it is not natural for a lion to live in a country where, in winter, the temperature can fall below zero.
a thing for fastening clothes, bags, etc. consisting of two rows of very small parts that connect together
to do up/undo a zip
I can't open my bag - the zip has stuck.
Suddenly the zip of my new dress broke.
an area where a particular thing happens, that is used for a particular purpose, or where there are particular rules
an earthquake zone
a nuclear-free zone
He was charged with driving 75 mph in a 55 mph zone.
The UN Security Council has established a no-fly zone.
It is a very clean city with a lot of car-free zones.
a place where wild animals are kept so that people can go and look at them
I still remember my first trip to the zoo.
I like London Zoo. It is a very nice and beautiful zoo.
